you have to price in a little bit more
risk.
>> A regime that is now under threat does
not fear consequences.
>> I don't think this is going to really
disrupt markets.
>> The subdued reaction is partly due to
the fact that we kind of had this move
ahead of time.
>> I don't want to count against corporate
America. They seem to be rising to the
occasion on just about every single
issue we've seen. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, positioning for weeks, not
days.
>> We have the strongest and most powerful
by far military in the world. And we
will easily prevail. But whatever the
time is, it's okay. Whatever it takes. I
would never hang hang a time frame from
our perspective. The commander-in-chief
sets the up tempo and terms of this
fight.
>> The hardest hits are yet to come.
>> The White House preparing for whatever
it takes for as long as it takes as Iran
is threatening to fire on traffic going
through the straight of Hormuz. The
conflict is sending crude through 80 and
gas prices surging. Energy is going
through a huge repricing.
>> And it's happening when it comes to
crude. It's happening even more when it
comes to natural gas. And Europe is very
much front and focus. European natural
gas prices are up about 70% since the
European closed and we're getting news
that uh Qatar Energy is stopping the
output of some other minerals as well.
There is a real question about what
Europe in particular is experiencing
even as the United States experiences
the highest bump up in gas prices going
back almost 20 years.
>> Is it 2022 volume two for the Europeans?
Check out the underperformance on the
equity side. Futures this morning on the
S&P down by 1.8%. The DAX is down by
close to four. Italy, Italian equities
down by close to five. In the European
bond market, look at this. Yields much
much higher across the curve from the UK
to Germany to Italy. At the front end of
the UK, we're seeing a move at the long
end as well. Tens are up by 15 basis
points. We're pricing in the prospect of
tighter policy, pricing out rate cuts at
the Bank of England, and pricing in the
very real risk of rate hikes at the ECB
>> because ultimately this is a supply
shock. Yes. However, it is going to hike
the prices of goods across the region
just like we saw as you mentioned in
2022 in the wake of the Ukraine war. A
really interesting note from Bloomberg
economics analysts where they came out
and they said not only does this
pressure gas and oil prices in the
European region, but also puts pressure
on governments to spend more to support
some of their consumers to lower prices.
We're hearing noise around that in the
United States. Potentially, we could get
that kind of effort in Europe. What does
that do to the politics of the moment
when there already is so much
disgruntled sentiment among the
population?
>> Does it upend the cyclical recovery?
It's an unfortunate situation for the
Europeans to be in. They've decreased
their dependence on Russian gas and
increased their dependence on Katar's
LNG. And all of a sudden, as you point
out, LG production has basically
plummeted in the region. And now we look
at these moves. Are we going to see the
big trade of the year upended as well?
The global equity outperformance in
places like Japan. Japan's trading
softer this morning. Places like the
Cosby. The Cosby got absolutely hammered
in today's session down by 7%. So the
big winners of the year, the big losers
of the last 24 hours.
>> What you have is a market that tends to
exert the most punishment on people that
it possibly can. And right now you had
people overweight international
equities. You had people overweight
Europe. You had people saying X uh US
the rest of the world looks good. And
you're saying Samsung is going to
support everything in a Cosby. And
suddenly people are taking a look and
saying, "Wait a second. The dollar is
the haven." And suddenly there are weak
spots that are potentially uh
exemplified by some of this conflict.
>> A lot to get through this morning. Big
moves. The Bloomberg terminal is
lighting up. That's for sure. Crude is
high by more than 7% 8343 on Brent. WTI
is 76. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Christopher Strategus with
global markets on edge. Horge Leon of
Ricestead Energy on whether oil could
hit triple digits and Torsson's lock of
Apollo as inflation fears rock the bond
market. We begin this hour with stocks
falling and oil breaking back through 80
as the Middle East conflict grinds on.
Chris Verona Stratigus a bed company
writing a price first approach is about
as useful of a skill set as there is to
navigate the unknowns. Chris joins us
now for more. Chris, good morning.
>> Great to be here.
>> Lots of unknowns to navigate. Are we
upending the cyclical recovery
worldwide? I think we're going to learn
here, you know, going into this um if
you had to find what were some fissures
in the cyclical recovery, it was the
message from bond yields the last couple
months, right? The expectation was bond
yields would be up, they were down. We
were trying to ask why. I think the
other question out there was why was
discretionary acting so poorly in a
world where tax refunds and stimulus
were supposed to be the big stories in
26. So there were already some question
mark. You saw some weakness in the banks
the last couple weeks. Um I think the
harder question as as we look out you
know over the next um number of months
is are we returning to this environment
where bond yields up uh reemerge as the
hedge here and if you look at the price
action the last couple days um it's bond
yields up particularly in Europe.
>> You mentioned discretionary and the
consumer
>> the cyclical recovery didn't pick up
discretionary stocks and you saw that in
the bank names as well and you've talked
about that repeatedly. discretionary in
anything exposed to the consumer
yesterday got hammered staples too and
they're a big winner of the year so far.
Is that a big flashing light for you
right now that those names those sectors
that part of the equity market can't get
off the map? I think it speaks to this
idea, you know, we talk about price
first, right? And you know, one of the
conundrums for people was why was energy
getting better, right? Really at the
expense of consumer discretionary and
energy's improvement doesn't date back
four weeks or six weeks or eight weeks.
I mean, energy started to improve in our
work in August, September, October. Um,
it could have been cyclical recovery. It
could have been inflation pressures
building. It could have been as we maybe
learn now something um war
I is the market the kind of this
discounting mechanism that's saying hey
energy was getting better regardless of
this and if we get any sell the news in
energy or oil over the next couple weeks
that's actually what you want to be
buying as opposed to any relief rally in
consumer discretionary that's where we
are right here I think energy is the
leadership I think it's been the
leadership it's certainly the leadership
in Europe I mean even in places like
Japan it's the leadership and certainly
um the story here as well
>> and it's certainly leading the repricing
of monetary policy around the world. The
RBA said every meeting is a live
meeting. We saw a headline cross the
Bloomberg about 2 hours ago pricing in
the prospect of higher rates at the ECB,
not lower rates at the European Central
Bank. Is that where this is heading now?
Tied to financial conditions.
>> Yeah, I think we got to be a little
careful reading into monetary policy
just yet. I mean, just go back three or
four weeks ago. If you look at the shape
of like the sofur curve, um the market's
still pricing easier policy in the
second half of 2026 in the US. I'm
skeptical that you're going to see the
Europeans hiking into this in the back
half of this year. Um you could convince
me on the Aussies going again. It's one
of the stronger economies in the world.
It's one of the stronger currencies in
the world where bond yields have
generally look different than rest of
world. Um I would be very skeptical to
the idea that the Europeans are going to
be hiking into this over the next number
of months. If you really uh do follow
the price, yesterday was a fascinating
case study because first uh the
knee-jerk reaction was actually a bid
into treasuries and you saw yields come
in and what seemed to trigger it was
that ISM uh factor, the ISM
manufacturing data that came out that
showed not only did it pick up and
expansion territory, but you also had
price pressure. So on the back end,
you're looking at an economy at least in
the world's biggest that is doing okay
and that frankly is picking up and
already has inflationary pressure. How
important is that to sort of fuel the
potential inflation threat?
>> Yeah, I mean if you look at the the mix
yesterday with strong PMI like
transports acted great even with oil up.
I mean there was some oddities about the
price action yesterday. And you know one
thing we wrote to clients yesterday was
in moments like this be very alert to
what acts differently than intuition
might suggest. And you know on that
score I think the price action in gold
and silver the last 48 hours is
fascinating. Um the fact that gold's not
making new highs on this I think should
be a wakeup call that hey maybe the bull
market here has happened or at a minimum
you're in some type of pause period I
mean silver had a nasty nasty reversal
yesterday I think maybe 15% from high to
low uh with where it's trading this
morning. So you know be alert to where
positioning was very very one-sided and
then the price action is not living up
to the hype. on the other side of that.
I mean the way dollar has responded here
coming off you know the covers from the
economist and baronss the last two weeks
right so ju just be alert to where maybe
the attitudes are to one direction and
the price action is starting to suggest
something different
>> well the initial knee-jerk reaction
suggests that a lot of trades got
upended because there was this sort of
consensus trade oh sell America get out
of everything but US stocks and you're
seeing sort of the counter uh balance to
that I just wonder what we are actually
pricing in I mean what kind of scenario
do you as currently breaks in.
>> So I I've never been in the camp this is
like a sell America moment. I think it's
a buy incrementally less America moment
when you operate in a business on the
margin like this is that's meaningful
and I think it's contributed meaningful
to the outperformance of rest of world
uh verse US. Now that for us was never
about Europe. That was about Japan. That
was about Latin America. Um I don't know
kind of where Europe ultimately falls in
this. You know, something that we've
been alert to the last few weeks in
Europe is I didn't like the bank stocks
were starting to weaken there after a
really a two or threeyear run. I think
it's very fascinating that the European
defense stocks have actually started to
soften here. Ry Mattel in Germany was
actually down sharply yesterday, down
again this morning. So, you know, in the
spirit of uh where is um where is your
intuition not being validated by price
action? I think those German defense
companies, the European defense
companies are one example of that. I
would also just say, you know, this idea
that, you know, rest of world just
outperforms us in a straight line for
the next seven years is also pretty
silly. I I mean like if it was that
easy, we all wouldn't be here, right?
There are moments that that that really
test you. And I think you're going to
get tested in Japan here. We love it
long still. I want to be a buyer of
oversold conditions in Japan as they
emerge. I think it has more of the stock
that this market craves. It's a 25%
waiting uh in industrials, in robotics,
all the type of stocks uh that we want
here. I would be very very careful with
Cosby as we're seeing this morning. I
mean, when you're 70% above the 200 day
moving average as the Cosby is really
driven by two stocks, Samsung and Highix
to a lesser extent to a lesser extent
some of the defense companies and banks.
Um it could be anything that pulls the
pin. It just happens to be this. You
know, it reminds me a little bit of back
in late January, early February when
silver was 150% above the 200 day moving
average. And you know, it was the it was
the worst nomination that pulled the pin
on silver. No, it could have been
anything. And it could be anything in
Cosby that pulls the pin here. There is
serious correction risk in the memory
stocks. I think it's interesting. Micron
has not made new highs here. It's 125%
above a 200 day moving average. So, just
be alert to where some of the extremes
are. We had a move of 40 to 50% year to
date on the cost being. We're down 7%
>> in today's session. What about EM more
broadly? The prospect of higher energy
cost, the prospect of a stronger dollar
bouncing back too. Are we upending that
trade?
>> So, you know, um the EM call for us has
been more about Latin America, which I
still think is in very good condition
here. It's really one of the only places
I can find globally, and this has been
true for a year now, where the stocks
are good, the bonds are good, and the
currencies are pretty good. So, it kind
of has the hattrick here. Um, you know,
we always look to the currencies as kind
of an indication of whether there's
capital flight or whether capital is
being attracted. And I think in Latin
America, capital's being attracted. I
don't think that makes it immune from a
riskoff moment here in global markets.
But they're still among the better
charts we can find. I think the stronger
currencies in the world are found there.
Uh, and the stronger bond markets uh
found there as well.
>> Chris, it's good to see you. Good to see
you.
>> Chris Veron of Strategus working through
these equity markets for us. Equity
futures on the S&P down by 1.8% 8% so
far this morning. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. Israel conducting a new round
of air strikes in Thran this morning
after a pair of drones hit near the US
embassy in Riyad, Saudi Arabia. Iran
also says it's targeting a it targeted a
US base in Bahrain. The State Department
is urging Americans across the Middle
East to leave as soon as they can.
Elsewhere, a planned summit between
President Donald Trump and China's
Xiinping is still on track for the end
of the month. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg that US and chi Chinese trade
negotiators will meet in Paris in just a
few weeks. The meeting marks the first
sitdown between high level officials
from both countries since the Supreme
Court dealt a blow to President Trump's
global tariffs. And I'm sure this will
also be on the agenda. US officials are
weighing capping the number of AI
accelerators Nvidia can export to
companies in China. Sources telling us
here at Bloomberg the proposed cap would
limit Chinese firms to buying 75,000 of
Nvidia's H200 chips each. The limit is
less than half of what firms told Nvidia
they would like to purchase. That brief
John.
>> Hey Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara
later this hour. Up next on the program,
whatever it takes in Iran.
We're already substantially ahead of our
time projections, but whatever the time
is, it's okay. Whatever it takes. Up
next, we'll catch up with Major General
Masten Robinson of Academy Securities
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
risk assets very much on the back foot
so far this morning. Here's a picture of
things for you. Negative 1.8 on the S&P,
down by more than two on the NASDAQ,
down by 2.6 on the Russell. A notable
feature of today's price action, the
underperformance across Europe from the
DAX to Italy. In the bond market, a
similar story. Yields up big time over
in Europe. This morning, state side,
Treasury yields higher as well, up by
nine basis points this morning. Pushing
360 now at 35677, up by six on 10. Let's
call this 4.1%. Off the back of this,
the epicenter of the moves. A major
rally in energy both in gas and in
crude. Brent crude 84 and up another
8.6% on the session. a big question
about what kind of disruption you could
end up having, not only with the straits
of Armuse, but also with certain
producers in the Middle East getting
shut down or shutting down their
facilities because of attacks. This
really is raising the spectre of a price
shock that we haven't seen since guess
when 2022.
>> Feels like it might be 2022 volume 2.
We'll see. That's going to be a big part
of the discussion for us on Bloomberg
Savandas this morning. and Savandis this
morning. Whatever it takes in Iran,
>> we have the strongest and most powerful
by far military in the world, and we
will easily prevail.
We're already
substantially ahead of our time
projections, but whatever the time is,
it's okay. Whatever it takes.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Strikes across the Middle East
continuing for a fourth consecutive day.
The president saying the conflict has no
set timeline and is refusing to rule out
American boots on the ground.
Bloomberg's Mika Sera joins us now from
Washington for more. Mika, welcome to
the program. Do we have a clearer
understanding of the objectives now over
the next several weeks?
>> You know, I think that there's still a
lot of questions uh about the
administration's operation in Iran. And
we're going to find out more this week.
Trump officials are going to brief
lawmakers on Capitol Hill who still
remain perplexed in terms of what
exactly the objectives are. Uh it is
significant that uh the administration
officials have not ruled out boots on
the ground and I think that might change
the posturing of lawmakers in Congress
who who argue that this may need
congressional action if the US does end
up sending troops on the ground there.
Ma, what did Washington DC and
congressmen and women make of the
explanation, the rationale for this
particular conflict from the Secretary
of State Marco Rubio just yesterday?
>> Yeah, I think Republicans are working
really hard to try and appear supportive
of President Trump's efforts because
they don't want to get into the
crosshairs of the president. Uh, but I
think that there's privately a lot of
questions that are being asked. I mean,
I spoke with a couple of lawmakers who,
you know, have privately raised
questions about what exactly uh the
administration's going to do here, and
clearly there's polling that already
shows that this is an unpopular move
with the public. So, there's concerns of
how this may play out politically, but I
think that the more transparency the
administration administration can
provide for lawmakers, that's going to
give a better sense. Uh, right now on
the hill,
>> maker, good to see you. Mason there of
Bloomberg down in Washington. Higher
energy prices brammo higher prices at
the pump. That's going to translate very
quickly and that will come with its own
pressure ahead of the midterms
>> which is the reason why Marco Rubio is
saying that they've got a plan for this.
Well, what's the plan? Especially
because the SPR, the strategic petroleum
reserve, has been depleted by almost 40%
since the peak in 2020. So, if you can
use that, great. But what else do you
have up your sleeve?
>> Let's extend the conversation with US
Marine Corps veteran Major General
Masten Robinson of Academy Security's
writing the following. Iran's current
ability to make clear and rational
decisions is likely disrupted, but
proxies are still a problem that is not
easily solved. The Major General joins
us now for more. Major General, welcome
to the program, sir. Always appreciate
your insight. Let's just start with your
assessment of the operation so far.
>> Uh, thanks John Lisa. So, I mean, could
I it it seemed to me that the the number
one objective was to try to ensure that
the nuclear capability
um for Iran is is off the table. And it
does seem that that part of the
operation has gone well. Um if the
objective was to take down middle
mid-range and short range or
particularly long range and mid-range
missiles and destruction of the Navy,
that's gone well. Uh the challenge is
the the side effects of those the
closing of the straits uh the attacks on
Middle Eastern countries and their
capitals which doesn't really surprise
me uh because it you've got to believe
that everything that's happened from the
Iranian side of the house over the last
four days was probably prescripted that
if we get attacked these are the targets
these are things you do which probably
in hindsight is not best for for Iran to
be attacking the other Middle East
count's capitals because it it certainly
plays against their ability to to have
an emotional connection to the Muslim
people in those countries and separate
them from their their governments.
>> So, Major General, that last point I
think is quite important that the
response we've seen from forces in Iran
so far has been scripted. As time goes
on, how do you think IRGC forces are
operating or will operate in a
leadership vacuum?
>> I mean, that's that's the hard part to
predict because I I do think they're
operating in a vacuum. I don't think
that there's a central government that's
that is in essence making the decisions
to say this is what we're going to do
next. These are our objectives. This is
what we want to achieve in order to get
the upper hand. So it it is going to be
interesting to watch at what point do
they have the ability to name a
government and then even after they name
it does it have any control given the
amount of destruction that's occurred to
their network. Do they have the ability
to control the um their their military
or is their military pretty much now in
isolated bubbles doing what they think
are best without any centralized
control? And and that has a danger all
to itself. Um but but it also means that
they're not going to be unified in
objectives to be able to try to to
disrupt what the coalition right now is
trying to accomplish. Major General, I
wonder what we're learning about the
nature of modern warfare in terms of the
way that drones are being used and
deployed by Iran and the asymmetry in
pricing. Right? These drones are cheap.
They are multiple and they are quick to
produce. And at the same time, some of
the missiles that were using to shoot
them down cost tens, hundreds of
thousands of dollars. I mean, how is
that mismatch playing out? And how could
that be something that shapes the nature
of war going forward?
Yeah, you're absolutely right, Lisa,
that this we we the US have to figure
out a better way to do this. Uh we've
got to figure out a cheaper way to do
this. Um it it doesn't make economic
sense to do what you've just described
with with, you know, million-doll
missiles shooting down hundreds of
dollars drones. So, it it was
fascinating to me to see that um
President Zullinski had offered uh to to
help us figure that out better if and
help Israel figure out out better if if
they could convince and the Middle East
could convince Russia for a 30-day
ceasefire. So, who knows? I mean, this
this that that may happen.
>> Well, Major General, the way that war is
being fought is so different. In this
case, there's a concern that retaliation
could come in the form of cyber attacks
or other types of disruption. Uh, how
are you monitoring that given the fact
that it could be kind of oneoff events
in different places? How well protected
is not only the US but also other Middle
Eastern countries against that type of
attack?
>> I think we're pretty well protected. I
mean, there's there's no way that you're
going to get 100% protection. Um, but
but I think let's let's remember that
even though this is a 4-day war that's
that's been ongoing now, cyber attacks
and penetrations have been a serious
threat for years. Um, and by and large,
even though Iran has a capability,
their capability pales in comparison to
to some of the other cap capability of
nefarious actors that are out there in
the world who certainly could uh insert
themselves into this to in a disruption
uh type style, but I'm not sure it's to
their advantage. It appears at this
point that the China and the Russians
and the North Koreans are content at
this point to sit on the sideline and
watch this play out. And that's to our
advantage if that happens. If it
broadens and they become part of what
you're describing um you know a a cyber
type offensive defensive war, then that
does complicate things for for
everybody. But I think we have a a
better defensive architecture
um than than probably we're willing to
advertise for obvious reasons.
>> Major General, a serious final point
there. We appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. Major General Mastin Robinson
there of Academy Securities, a man with
some 34 years experience of active duty
across 60 countries and extensive
experience in the Middle East.
>> And right now, that experience is
lending itself to a new type of war. And
the point that he made there that
Vladimir Zilleski is offering to help
the United States and and the other uh
Middle East nations with drones just
gives you a sense of how much things
have changed.
>> That's a fight they've been fighting for
a number of years. Coming up on the
program, Helion of Ricead Energy on
whether oil could hit triple digits.
Plus, Jihara drops by with your morning
movers. Oil and gas stocks absolutely
surging in certain places this morning.
Off the back of this move in crude.
Brent, briefly through $85 a barrel for
the first time since July 2024.
Check out the price action this morning.
The scores look like this. Down across
the board. Negative 1.8 on the S&P. On
the NASDAQ, down by 2.3. On the Russell,
down by 2.7. It was notable yesterday
that we actually managed to finish in
the green, believe it or not. Even as
the Europeans had their worst day for
stocks going back to spring of last
year. Europe underperforming again this
morning. The stock 600 is down by 3%.
The DAX is down by close to four. It's a
notable feature of the price action,
this underperformance out of Europe. And
you see it in bonds too. So we've had a
double digit adjustment at the front end
of the curve yesterday and again this
morning up 11 basis points, twos at
358.62 62 as we price in the prospect of
tighter monetary policy pricing out the
prospect of additional rate cuts in
places like the US but also places like
the UK check out the bond board in
Europe right now much bigger moves 10's
up by 15 in the UK in Germany up by
close to 10 similar story in Italy as we
price in the risk the risk and I stress
the risk not the inevitability but the
risk that we could get tighter monetary
policy out of the ECB
>> ultimately the inflation pressure coming
from natural gas in particular really
significant. We saw this in the wake of
2022 and it's coming at a time of
recovery. So, a lack of demand isn't
going to dampen that kind of
inflationary boost. People say that
natural gas is the most pure play on
this entire conflict right now. And
guess who that hits hardest? Europe.
>> Let's go through the energy moves. So,
we've got Brent and WTI rallying pretty
hard. Briefly, Brent through 85 for the
first time in a couple of years this
morning. 8373 off those highs. But Bremo
mentioned the move in benchmark race for
European gas. Huge huge moves yesterday
up 40% this morning up another let's
call it 30 up 90% Bremo in just two
sessions
>> and this is because you have cutter LNG
closing some of its production at least
temporarily. That is about a fifth of
all production of natural gas comes from
this region and it goes primarily to
Europe. So once again, they're
constrained akin to what happened in
2022 when they were diversifying away
from Russia. Where do they diversify
away from at this point given the fact
that if it's coming from the United
States? How does it even get there?
Given the fact that there are now real
threats on the seas.
>> So it's early days and we don't know how
long this is going to go on for. But
we're told repeatedly what matters here
is duration. How long this goes on for.
So we can have this conversation about
the risk of a 2022. Unlike Russia, I
don't think this president wants to get
bogged down in a war and a run for a
number of years. Let's hope this is a
number of weeks for everybody's sake.
But we have to explore the
inevitability, maybe the possibility
that this does carry on and disruptions
continue and you have a situation in
Europe where they face another energy
shock several years after the last one.
Are we going to see scarring in pricing?
And what do I mean by that? I got a
message from Jeff Curry of Carlile
yesterday and he sent out a note and I'm
sure you've read it too and he's talking
about a structural adjustment in how we
price commodities, something that sticks
with us that isn't temporary and isn't
something you should fade
>> and you end up with that kind of
structural risk premium on Europe as
well. You think about the way that the
market was set up going into this.
People were set up for oil prices to
remain low. They were set up for Europe
to outperform because finally they had
the chance to do something with respect
to rebuilding etc. Now suddenly they're
facing the same shock which is a cutting
off of their natural gas supplies. At
what point does this become a persistent
risk premium that really doesn't put us
back before this conflict began.
>> Brent crude this morning 83 88 briefly
at 85. Let's get you some single names
three hours away from the open and bail.
Yahara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. As you said, we're seeing this
riskoff mood in the market, potentially
exacerbating some of these downside
moves. We are seeing shares of AMD and
Nvidia lower in the pre-market. Honor
reporting that Washington is considering
fresh limits on AI exports, AI chip
exports to China, potentially capping
the amount of high power chips any
single Chinese firm can buy. This of
course could further restrict and just
complicate these companies re-entry into
that critical market. And the software
selloff is back. We are seeing MongoDB
shares plunging nearly 27% in the
pre-market. The fourth quarter results
were good. It beat consensus. But as we
know, the bar has been set extremely
high for these software names. And when
it came to its fullear revenue guidance,
it just did not clear it. And we end on
the only bright spot in this market, and
that is oil. Take a look at Battalion
Energy. This is a small oil firm out of
West Texas. Shares are soaring 127% as
it tracks the broader spike in oil
prices due to the war. Exxon Chevron
also positive on fears of a supply
crunch. John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate the update
on our radar this morning. Our top
story, the conflict in Iran entering its
fourth day. The president saying there
is no fixed timeline and he'll do quote
whatever it takes. The president's
comment coming just hours after
Secretary Hegth rejected the idea of an
endless war. Elsewhere, Iran vowing to
close the straight of Hus, threatening
to open fire on any ship trying to pass
through. The announcement effectively
halting traffic at the critical choke
point. Chinese officials calling on all
sides to ensure the safe passage of
ships. And finally, Secretary of State
Marco Rubio indicating a plan to combat
surging oil prices is coming. The energy
secretary Chris Wright and Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson are expected to
make an announcement later on today.
Let's stick with energy crew topping 85
with shipping traffic through the
straight of Hormurs effectively halted.
Sali Yamas of Bloomberg Intelligence
joins us now for more. Sal, welcome to
the program. Can you share with us the
damage done to energy infrastructure in
the region as things stand?
>> Sure thing. And I mean as you
highlighted just in the last 10 minutes
we got the headlines on the terminal
that um there's a major fire at Fujer
port here in the UAE not far from uh
where I'm where I'm based which is for
the um this intraday pushing brand
prices up to $85 a barrel. Two key
things to watch that we've been
highlighting since the weekend are
impact on oil infrastructure and as you
highlighted previously straight off
Hermas and just in the last 24 hours we
did see some impact on other energy
infrastructure the Russ Tanura refinery
in Saudi Arabia and I mean you could
argue that that's more relevant for
products not crude and of course the
Russ Lafan um LNG export facility in
Qatar and then you could argue that's LG
but what we're seeing in the last hour
is that you know crude oil
infrastructure is very much at risk as
well and uh this obviously would result
in a much bigger spike for oil prices.
And in terms of oil um infrastructure, I
guess a good precedent to look back at
is back in 2019 when the Houthi rebels
attacked the UK oil processing facility
in Saudi Aramco. And this actually took
out 5.6 6 5.7 million barrels per day
off the market for about a week and we
in that instance saw one of the biggest
daily uh spikes in oil prices. So you
know straight off hormone is very
important we'll be watching whether that
lasts for days. The longer it lasts the
more painful it will be and the more it
will be reflected in prices but also
impact on this type of oil
infrastructure can be very very bullish
for prices. Sal appreciate your time.
Sal Yans of Bloomberg Intelligence on
the production and movement of energy in
the Middle East. Horge Leon of Rice that
Energy writes this. There's a high risk
of prices increasing in the coming days.
The impact on GDP and inflation could be
significant. Horge joins us now for
more. Welcome to the program, sir. What
do you think is more notable? The hits
to energy infrastructure or the passage
of energy through the straight of
Hormurs grind into a hole? Is it one or
the other? Good morning, John. Thank you
for having me. I think it's both, but if
I was to choose one, most of the price
action is because of the traffic in the
straight of moons being being halted.
Let's not forget this is 15 million
barrels per day. That is onethird of
seaborn crude exports globally. So, this
is a massive disruption to the to the
energy system and in particularly to the
to the oil markets. But of course,
recently in the last few um hours um
we've seen increasing hits on energy
infrastructure. the the recent one the
light latest one just 10 minutes ago the
Fujira port has been has been hit but
also refineries and oil storage
facilities in Oman for example so I
think that we're gradually going into
more and more um attacks on energy
infrastructure and combining both the
closure of the trade of rem and attacks
on energy infrastructure that is likely
to keep supporting oil prices for the
hours and days to come
>> it seems like Jorge Iran has crossed a
line that it hasn't crossed before in
terms of attacking energy assets in of
other Middle East nations. This has
crossed the line in a number of
different ways. You've heard retaliatory
comments coming from uh some of the
other Middle East nations. I'm just
wondering is there analogous period in
time to this one in terms of both a
question around the street of Ramuz and
how open it will remain as well as
attacks on infrastructure in other
Middle Eastern nations.
>> That's a great question. Um if you
remember back in the 12- day war last
year, energy infrastructure was not
touched. um it was it was clear uh but
right now we've crossed many many red
lines. Now the only historical parallel
that I can think of is the Iran Iraq war
where Iran closed or partially closed
the straight of Hermoose for a for a few
days a couple of weeks and that caused
quite a bit of disruption. Um that that
would be the the the main historical
parallel but obviously you know things
have changed massively in the in the in
the in the 40 years. um you know the way
vessels are are attacked are have also
changed. So I think that the impact of
closing the trade of horm is actually
much higher right now.
>> It seems like Jorge when I was speaking
to investors yesterday they seem pretty
sanguin about this they said always fade
the moves in geopolitics. They tend to
be short-lived uh and tend to be good
buy the dip opportunities. Why do you
think this is a different experience
that people are underpricing the risk of
oil surging much more significantly?
I I think for a couple of reasons. The
first one is that we were all very
surprised on our price action yesterday.
We thought that brand was going to open
at $85$90 per barrel. In reality, it was
less than than 80. Uh today, of course,
our prices are reaching $85 per barrel.
But I think that the limited initial
price action is driven by the fact that
don't forget we're in an over supply
market in 2026. there's ample good
storage particularly in China but also
in other main uh main hubs and one
important historical parallel that I
think is worth remembering when Russia
uh Ukraine war started in uh February
2022 oil prices didn't react immediately
it took more than 10 days for prices to
really spike and uh reach $130 per
barrel and that's the main the main
message here right the unknown how long
this is going to last for which is
probably holding a little bit the upside
price pressure.
>> So, we keep hearing this and I think
it's really important. I think we have
to tackle it head on now. A lot of
people come on this program and say it
depends how long it lasts. It depends if
it goes on for weeks or months. Where's
the tipping point on the calendar where
this becomes much more real and does
become like 2022?
>> I think that the main things that I
would keep an eye on is storage
facilities in GCC countries. how much
storage facility that Saudi Arabia, the
UAE and Kuwait have at the moment to
prevent production shutins. We know that
that current rates they could still have
hold production steady for 15 20 days
but after that if there is no way to
export crude they will need to start
shedding in production and that's when
things really really become tricky.
>> That's the specific thing to watch. Oh
hey, appreciate your time. Thank you
sir. Oh Leon there of Ricead Energy.
We've heard it a lot, haven't we? In the
last 24 hours. Just depends how long it
goes on for. That's why time matters.
>> Yeah. 15 to 20 days potentially could be
the tipping point at a time when
President Trump has talked about this
going on for four or five weeks. So, how
much do the pressures from some of the
uh price appreciation in energy
resources really cause an end to this?
Or can it? That's the other question.
How do we get an end to this that's
clean given the fact that potentially
this has some of the uh the hallmarks of
something that's not exactly easy to
shut off? Equity futures just off
session loads. We're down by something
like 2% this morning, down by 1.7. Let's
keep an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Yahara has more.
Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump vowing
to do quote whatever it takes in Iran as
the war enters its fourth day. The
president originally projecting the war
would last four to five weeks, but later
saying the US has the capability to go
far longer than that. US Defense
Secretary Pete Hexth, however, rejecting
the idea of quote endless war.
Meanwhile, we are seeing Target shares
rising more than 4% in the pre-market.
The retail giants posting an earnings
beat for the fourth quarter. Target also
forecasting better than expected profit
for the full year, indicating its
turnaround plans are starting to pay
off. And Meta is testing out a new
shopping research feature in its AI
chatbot in a bid to compete with
OpenAI's Czech GPT and Google's Gemini.
The feature suggests products on a
carousel with information and a brief
explanation of its suggestions. It's
being rolled out for some US-based
users. That's your week brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, inflation fears
resurfacing.
>> We look at risk. You look at the broad
range of outcomes and there are negative
outcomes, but one of them would be, you
know, inflation. I call that's the skunk
at the party. Did the skunk just turn
up? Toss of Apollo joins us next live
from New York. You're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Holding on to losses here. We're down by
1.6% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, down
by two. On the Russell, down by 2.4. In
the commodity market, big moves in crude
up by 8% on WTI 77. Brent crude briefly
through 85. A big repricing of the
energy complex, including gas prices,
too. Gas prices in Europe, Bramo,
absolutely surging.
>> Yeah. And this is a sort of one-two
punch. On one hand, there's a question
about just the shipping transits and how
open they will remain, how under threat
they will remain. And then there's a
question of actual attacks on energy
assets in the Middle East, which opens
up a new spectre of actually resources
being constrained.
>> Under Savanis this morning, inflation
fears resurfacing.
>> We look at risk, we look at the broad
range of outcomes, and there are
negative outcomes, but one of them would
be, you know, inflation. I called that's
the skunk at the party. Some of these
things when you talk about war, you
know, Vietnam, you know, did it affect
the economy in the very short run? No.
It had a 20-year effect after that. So,
you you got to look at these things as
they're moving plates that'll it can
take 5 years to have an effect, but
effectively real. Right now, the economy
is doing fine. So, here's the latest
this morning. Global bonds seeing their
biggest selloff since May with the
Middle East conflict reigniting
inflation fears. Thorson of Apollo
writing, "The key issue is the duration
of the shock. Markets may quickly get
used to a situation that could last
weeks or even months. Torson joins us
now for more. Torsson, welcome to the
program. Does this shock have the
potential to become an economic issue in
the months to come?
>> Yeah, because this is a stlflationary
impulse. It's actually quite similar to
what we saw with the trade war. Prices
are going to go up and ultimately if it
persists, GDP is going to go down. So
this creates a huge headache for the
Federal Reserve because the Federal
Reserve now needs to assess the dual
mandate. Where is the hit the hardest?
is the hit the hardest on inflation.
Should they worry more about inflation
going up or should they begin to worry
about the downside impact on the labor
market? That's why this is a complicated
shock just like we saw with the trade
war, just like we saw with Ukraine,
Russia and thus like we're seeing today.
Relatively speaking, is it a bigger
problem for the Bank of England for the
ECB?
>> Well, the challenge for Europe is that
they depend more on energy. The US
produces of course a lot more energy
that it consumes itself. Whereas in
Europe, we do have a much bigger energy
dependency and that's exactly why
markets are trading the way they are
where Europe is getting harder hit
because there simply is a bigger energy
dependency in Europe.
>> How important Torstston is it for a
stiflationary shock for there to be
enough economic momentum in a country to
uh withstand and prolong price hikes?
>> Well, the challenge Lisa is that this
starting point is extremely important.
Inflation in core PCE today is 3.0. So
if inflations today had been 1.0, zero,
it would have been a completely
different discussion. But now that we
have inflation already at three and now
we're adding on top of that more upward
lift on inflation over the coming
quarters potentially, that is certainly
a risk that the Federal Reserve needs to
take very seriously.
>> Well, this is the reason why I was
surprised to hear in the conversations
that I've had with a number of different
investors, even companies. They seem
really excited actually about the
opportunities ahead. They think the
economy is chugging along. They're
looking to invest. The sort of
manufacturing boom feels like it's
actually getting legs. How much could
that amplify the risk of a
stagflationary shock because it could
cause the price increases to be more
significant in a way that isn't just
necessarily a one-off shock from
commodities?
>> No, you're right. And I mean, if you
just think about what has happened in
the last few weeks, first we were
talking about, wow, the US economy is
strong. Then we were talking about, oh
my god, we're all getting unemployed
because of AI. Now we're back to talking
about, wow, inflation is going up. I
mean, no wonder that the people inside
the Federal Reserve are looking at this
and probably scratching their heads and
say, "Well, now there's another shock
that we need to take into account." But
in combination, the issue is still that
the US economy is doing really well. We
have three very strong tailwinds from AI
spending. We have a strong tailwind from
the industrial renaissance. And let's
not forget that the Congressional Budget
Office, they estimate that the one big
bill of bill will lift GDP growth this
year by 0.9%. That's an enormous boost
to GDP coming from fiscal policy. So
taken together it is a very strong
economy and it is an argument that has
been made by many including me that we
are at risk of course of seeing more
upside pressure on inflation and now you
add here in the last few days on top of
that some more upside pressure because
of oil prices and finally let's not
forget also if this was just a few days
well the risk is now that even today now
we're getting headlines about new oil
facilities potentially also getting hit.
So the challenge here is that uh well
what headlines should we then expect
over the next several days again? So, it
really is a complex situation because of
this incredible risk that we might begin
to see even more upside pressure on
inflation from an already pretty bad
starting point.
>> Well, to let's unpack the bull case for
the US economy and the tax component of
it. Let's go with tax refunds. And you
mentioned the labor anxiety connected to
what's happening with AI developments. I
think that's a feature of the
conversation going forward. Does that
hold back people when it comes to
spending those tax refunds given that
they're now going to see higher energy
bills potentially, high utility bills
potentially? Does that make them more
riskaverse, conservative in the months
to come?
>> No, you're you're right, John, because
at last year, if you go and look at, of
course, what tax refunds normally are,
they were around $3,000 per family. And
now this year, if you think about that,
the one big beautiful bill is done
retroactively starting in January 1,
2025. That means that we have all paid
too much in taxes in 2025. That means
that our tax refunds will be bigger this
year. On average, they will go up from
$3,000 last year per family to now
$4,000. And there's 129 million
households in the US. So if you multiply
these two numbers, that's a hundred
billion dollars more in consumer
spending coming along here potentially
in March and April and May. So over the
next several months, we're going to get
quite a lift in consumer spending. But
you're right, if consumers are very
worried, they could be saved more. But
that's why the key indicator to look at
on that is to look at consumer
confidence. Consumer confidence has done
a little bit better, but are consumer
confidence indicators getting impacted
by this or not? That becomes very
important over the next several
readings. So to that feels like much
more of a European story potentially
than a US one. How do you expect central
bankers to guide us through this moment?
We had some guidance from the Australian
central bank overnight saying every
meeting is live. What do you think will
the the approach will be of say the
Europeans of the Federal Reserve, the
ECB?
>> Well, I think it's easier for the Fed
because they will probably be more
two-handed and say on the one hand we
have inflation going up. On the other
hand, we're worried about what this
means for the labor market. It's more
challenging for the ECB and the Bank of
England because they don't quote unquote
care about the labor market. They really
only target inflation and if they only
target inflation, they should begin to
be more hawkish. So that's why it makes
sense that rates and rates expectations
and central bank expectations are moving
more in Europe because the Europeans
have simply a different mandate, namely
only inflation.
>> Torston, does this torpedo the bullcase
for Europe and frankly for a lot of the
exus discussion? Because even though
yes, the United States could face a
stagflationary shock, other places could
struggle with that even more at a time
where the market seems to be overly
positioned that way.
>> Well, the challenge for Europe is that
the main bulk case for Europe is really
that Germany has said that they will
spend 500 billion euros on
infrastructure and spend unlimited on
defense. So the question that of course
is immediate here is to ask well what
are Europeans going to do now in the
form of defense spending? What are they
going to do in the form of more
government spending? So the policy
reaction becomes very critical. How is
Europe going to respond to this? Are
they going to say well too bad inflation
is just going up or are they going to
say well wait a minute maybe we do need
to do more on the fiscal front and there
is not much room to maneuver on that
front but it becomes very critical that
on the policy front the Europeans are
likely going to at least say and
indicate more action as a result in
particular if this does become more of a
negative risk to the GDP outlook.
Torstston, thank you sir. Always great
to catch up to Sllock there of Apollo.
The Europeans have limited fiscal space.
If they have to support the electorate,
the people that vote for them on the
energy side, do they have the space to
do more on defense? The answer to that
is probably not for certain countries.
>> Well, and this actually pairs with what
Chris Veron was saying earlier, which is
that yesterday defense stocks in Europe
sold off. Well, could that be a concern
that there wouldn't be enough fiscal
headroom to do both to both support some
of these defense companies as well as uh
ameliate some of the bills that people
are going to be getting when you have
natural gas prices surging to this
degree.
>> This is early days of course and a great
degree of this big chunk of it is
scenario analysis. But some of it's very
real. It's happening right now. You're
seeing the hit to infrastructure. You're
seeing the traffic grind to a halt
through the straight of that's happening
right now. That's real
>> and it's definitely affecting uh
European natural gas prices more than
anything else. I do think it's a US
story as well though very clearly given
the fact that the US administration has
talked about similarly supporting oil
prices and supporting some of the hit
that people might be experiencing after
we just saw the biggest increase at the
pump going back several decades in one
day. So clearly it's not just Europe,
it's also going to be the US in terms of
a policy response to avoid some of the
consumer anger.
>> Does that mean sending more energy to
the Europeans? Well, that's a great
question. Does that actually constrain
the US's desire to continue to be the
export partner? I mean, there's so many
questions here and it really does create
a murky situation.
>> Frank crude up by 8%. Euro dollar down
by 0.8. The euro a break of 116 115 97.
Up next, we'll catch up with Mark Hayley
of UBS, Clayton Seagull of CSIS, Jordan
Rochester of Missouo, Tony Rodriguez of
New. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
We do not have any sort of threat on
Iran's oil production.
>> These oil price spikes and especially if
we have to balance the global oil and
LNG market by demand destruction, that's
going to lead to a recession.
>> We're probably going to continue to at
least run at 3% on inflation going
forward. The Fed is not going forward
with an easing bias.
>> I think that they will look through a
spike in oil prices generated by the
conflict and not necessarily react.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Surant starts right now. Your
price action. The scores look like this.
We're down across the board. Down by 1.6
6 on the S&P, negative -2 on the NASDAQ.
This move on crude up 9% on Bren just
short of 85 through that level earlier
on in the session. WTI 77 up by 8.7 and
a big move in European gas yesterday and
again this morning.
>> Qatar Energy, which accounts for about a
fifth of all uh liqufied natural gas
supply, is temporarily closing its
operations and did so yesterday. Now
they're potentially closing other
operations and you're seeing not only
questions around the shipments of uh
natural gas and oil but also the
production because of direct attacks on
these uh these plants. This to me is a
gamecher and that's the reason why
slowly it's getting priced into the
market as hold on a second maybe this is
a significant disruption.
>> You see this as a much much bigger game
changer in a place like Europe. Check
out the bond market moves today.
Treasury yields are much higher. I've
got that. But look at places like the
UK. You've got an 18 basis point move at
the front end of the curve. And I know
there's some fiscal issues over there
that will be discussed today, but these
are big moves you're seeing across other
European nations as well. German yields
up by eight basis points on 10. And big
moves at the front end. And it's notable
that we're talking about the front end
because that's much more sensitive to
monetary policy. We're pricing out
easing at the Federal Reserve. We're
pricing out cuts at the Bank of England
and pricing in the prospect, just the
conversation, the prospect of tighter
monetary policy at the ECB. Look, we
learned this in 2022 that Europe is
vulnerable to a supply shock when it
comes to energy. And it's on two fronts.
On one hand, it's gas, but it's also
it's it's oil, but it's also natural gas
at a time when they are entirely
dependent on other nations outside of
Europe for these supplies. If you think
about yesterday's stock action, the
reason why the US ended the day in the
green was because of AI and because of
energy stocks that did really well.
Because guess what? The US produces a
lot of energy and can actually be
somewhat self-sufficient. Europe doesn't
have that ballast of either the AI
behemoths or of their own energy
production. So uniquely vulnerable not
only because of supply disruption but
also because of the composition of their
economy.
>> Some of the big winners as well getting
hammered in today's session. The big
winner of the year equity market that
index the Cosby huge huge winner for the
year so far. Massive loser in today's
session down by more than 7%. And we're
seeing that in precious metals too where
you've had the big gains through much of
the year. They're the big losers through
much of this morning.
>> Yeah, momentum is getting flipped on its
head. I'm looking at gold prices and uh
they're down significantly. Silver
prices down significantly. How does this
jive with the idea that gold and silver
are the new havens of suddenly you have
a 3.4% decline in gold in one day and an
even bigger move in silver? There is a
feeling that this upends the narrative
and it upends a lot of trades and it
really undermines some of the price
action. I keep going back to what Chris
Verone said about gold. This really does
challenge some of the uptrend and makes
you wonder are we breaking through.
>> Coming up this hour, lots to discuss.
Mark Hayley of UBS will join us as the
conflict with Iran puts investors on
edge. Clayton Seagull of CSIS as oil
breaks back into the 80s and Tony
Rodriguez of New as the widening
conflict revives inflation fears
worldwide. We begin this hour with
stocks lower and crude extending gains.
Mark Hayley of UBS writing,
"Historically, the impact of
geopolitical shocks on markets is
short-lived. Investors should maintain a
long-term focus using periods of
volatility to build more diversified
portfolios. Mark joins us now for more.
Mark, welcome. Let's think about your
base case into the weekend and given
developments whether that base case has
changed.
>> Well, it hasn't changed yet. I think in
our base case, you know, we said this
was a time absolutely to diversify,
rebalance, and hedge. We've been saying
that since January. We expected that
there would be kinetic action and our
base case is that you know if it lasts
less than 4 weeks we think this can be
kind of resolved and it'll be back to uh
worrying about AI again and and other
other things. That said, you know, the
discussion you've been having, I think
is the right one. We now know this is
not a Venezuela narrative. the
administration is telling us it's not an
Afghanistan narrative. So what is it?
You know, and I think in Europe they're
they are worried, you know, is this a a
Russia invasion of Ukraine energy spike
narrative? Now, we're not there yet, but
that is the longer this goes on with
Iran pushing back, the more those more
extreme scenarios are going to start to
get priced in.
>> Mark, you said four weeks. I've asked
this question a few times. Why is that
important to you? Why four weeks?
Well, I think at at that point uh you
know it's is it a little bit arbitrary?
Yeah. But I think that's when you you
know you've moved beyond kind of the
initial estimates of what the US can
sustain and certainly well beyond what
uh Iran can can sustain. And therefore
it's uh it's another kind of conflict
maybe something asymmetrical where Iran
uses drones or other things to continue
to cause pain in the wider region uh and
disrupt both travel and also the the
energy pipeline. So I think that's I if
if it can't be contained by there or the
president has not decided to declare
victory by then it's pretty clear we're
moving towards uh you know the potential
for a downside scenario.
>> At the same time Mark markets are
forward pricing indicators. So the
market's going to move significantly
before that and you have to be thinking
okay well how exactly do I arrange for
all of the potential scenarios which
have changed somewhat over the past 4872
hours. I'm looking at the Bloomberg
dollar spot index. It has had its
biggest two-day move going back to April
and we're seeing a flight back there.
We're not seeing it into gold. We're not
seeing it into silver. Is there a tell
here that you think is important for
investors?
>> Well, I think that the currencies is a
very interesting area where we've been
looking uh you know this kind of flight
to safety on the currency side. We're
looking for opportunities in things like
commodity currencies like the noi
Australian dollar where you know they
they could potentially win in this
scenario if if some of that flight to
safety rolls off but the strength in
commodities continues. I think it's also
an opportunity to perhaps broaden out
your tech exposure into Asia into tech
in in Europe. So that's where there's
some opportunities. Now in terms of the
broader narrative I think you know we
had a lot of our targets uh for the
upside they are for the year they
already got hit in January and that's
why we said hey let's uh you know let's
ex let's use a little common sense here
and rebalance some of these things uh
you know we still think gold has does
have upside into the year because that
central bank buying continues but some
of these moves you know where things go
vertical
Common sense says, you know, it is time
to rebalance the the portfolio.
>> So, Mark, I'm just wondering, have you
changed anything since uh the conflict
began with Iran in terms of your
portfolio?
>> We we haven't changed anything since uh
Friday. I think a lot of our clients
went into this well diversified with
enough cash on hand and so some of them
are absolutely looking for alternatives.
I think we feel the same in the money
that we manage uh on behalf of clients.
There's there's just too much
uncertainty about these larger
narratives to be trying to make big
moves uh in these very fastmoving
markets.
>> So Mark, are they deploying any capital
when they hunker down? Is it purely in
cash? Where's the money going?
>> Yeah, I think that where you know where
they're looking for opportunities is to
diversify. I think a lot of people last
year realized that currencies are a
thing and that getting caught in, you
know, one currency or being overweight
in the US dollar uh can be more costly
than they they originally anticipated,
especially for clients outside of the
United States. And so looking for those
opportunities to diversify uh is really
a focus of the work that we do and what
clients are asking for. Mark, just to
build on that, are they using this
strength in the US dollar over the last
few days to diversify away from the
currency?
>> I don't think yet, right? I I think it's
uh I think it's a welcome sign that you
don't need to, you know, move rapidly to
diversify all your dollar exposure. you
know, people are pricing in what does
that US military strength and the
liquidity of the US dollar still buy you
in this world? So, it's more of a okay,
you know, that this isn't a one-sided
argument about diversifying out of the
dollar at this point.
>> Is there a feeling right now that
riskier assets, which have gotten a
little bit heady in terms of pricing,
need to repric just a bit because of a
security premium? as we were just
talking about with Jeff Curry over at
Carile because of a risk premium that
needs to get baked in at a time of
what's going on in the Middle East.
Well, look, I think a lot of that
already started uh a few weeks ago
around AI. I mean, let let's let's
remember last week I think was a huge
week in in terms of AI and the
uncertainty that that is needs to price
in around our future as well. So there's
a there's a number of these big kind of
uncertainties that are coming together
right now. Investors have started this
process. This week is continuing that
process. Um and you know we'll see how
far it goes on on the um on the defense
side. I think that uh in some ways you
know if there is a a resolution to this
we'll be back to worrying about AI
again. uh and and you know what what
that future means and it and it was it
was almost a little ironic that we saw
the NASDAQ go up yesterday given the
concerns about AI. It's just like well
the market took their eyes off it so
that that popped up right
>> I think that's the chaos they prefer to
deal with. I never thought I'd say that,
but here we are. Mark, thank you. Mark
Hayfully there of UBS. I think people
hope we go back to all the AI nonsense
of the last few weeks. Honestly, this is
too real.
>> It's almost like nostalgia. People
saying, you know, we'll go back to AI.
Please, can we get to that? Right now,
it feels like the embodiment of macro
paralysis because there's so many
unknowns. You don't have an edge. You
don't have any kind of positive uh spin
on this. You're just waiting to see how
it develops.
>> This is all too real. Big moves. We're
seeing an energy. Brent crude up by
another 7% 8355 high the session just
through 85 WTI this morning at 7641.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. Israel conducting a new round
of air strikes in Thran this morning. It
follows an Iranian drone strike near the
US embassy in Riad, Saudi Arabia. Iran
also says it targeted a US base in
Bahrain. Speaking yesterday, President
Donald Trump vowing to do quote whatever
it takes against Iran.
China is calling on all sides of the
Iran conflict to ensure the safe passage
of ships through the straits of Hormuz.
Tanker traffic has been effectively
halted since Saturday as the world's
largest oil and gas importer, China, is
among the most exposed nations to any
disruption. Oil surging more than 15%
since the conflict erupted 4 days ago.
And Oak Tree Capital Management
co-founder Howard Marks says investors
need to avoid letting their emotions run
high when making decisions on exposure
to to the Middle East conflict. Speaking
at a summit in Australia, Mark saying,
quote, "The main thing to keep in mind
is how much we don't know about the
conflict's duration, size, and outcome."
That brief, John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, a plan for
higher prices.
We have a program in place that will
begin to be implemented by Secretary
Wright, Secretary Bessant. We talked
about it last night again about this
program. We talked this morning and
starting tomorrow, you will see us
rolling out those phases to try to
mitigate against that.
>> Up next, Clayton Seagull of CSIS from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
stocks slowly recovering but still near
the lows. We're down by 1.5 on the S&P,
down by 1.9 on the NASDAQ, on the
Russell. Some underperformance again.
We're down by about two four percentage
points. The move in crude big moves WTI
and Brent Brent crude briefly through 85
for the first time since 2024 up by
close to 7% but just off the highs at
83. Some major moves developing in the
European gas market very exposed to LG
production in a place like Katar. Of
course they're getting shut down in the
last 24 hours. A two-day move of more
than 80% on European gas futures. And
there is a real conversation from our
European partners this morning about the
prospect of reliving another shock
similar to what we saw in 22.
>> They haven't solved the ultimate problem
which is they are dependent on exports
of uh of energy resources in particular
natural gas. You look at the cutter
energy which actually suspended its
production on Monday. It accounts for a
fifth of all liqufied natural gas
production in the world. So you start to
think about that and you can understand
why you're seeing such a significant
move.
>> Let's talk about energy under Sylvanas
this morning. plan for higher prices.
>> Have a program in place that will begin
to be implemented by Secretary Wright,
Secretary Bessant. We talked about it
last night again about this program. We
talked this morning and starting
tomorrow, you will see us rolling out
those phases to try to mitigate against
that. This terroristic regime led by
radical clerics has the ability
potentially to shut off 20% of global
energy. That's the kind of leverage they
have because of their navy. We're going
to destroy their navy.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
secretary of state Marco Rubio saying
the white house will work to ease energy
costs as crude extends gains. Iran now
threatening to target any oil tankers
trying to move through the straight of
form. Joining us now is Bloomberg's sika
son. Mika, welcome back. Let's just talk
about what the plan actually is and when
we'll get the details of it.
>> Yeah, the white house is very aware of
the need to try and control energy costs
right now as this is becoming a
political issue. I still I think that
they're still working things out in
terms of how exactly they can try and
combat any rise as we're already seeing
these prices rise, but uh President
Trump is very aware that he needs to
focus on affordability issues this
campaign season and he can't let this be
a political liability going into the
November midterms.
>> Do you think it's becoming a political
liability?
>> I think it it it could be. I think we're
going to have to see what continues with
these prices, but uh energy dominance
has been one of the president's major uh
goals and one of his major um you know
issues that he's really tried to tout on
the campaign trail, one that he
continues to exert. Uh so I think that
we're going to see any mitigation
potentially and we're going to see this
plan lay out in the next few weeks.
>> Mama down in Washington DC looking
forward to seeing the plan. Clayton
Seel, the senior fellow for energy
security at CSIS, writing, "Either the
traders and the administration knows
something we don't, or we could be
sleepwalking into triple-digit crude
prices pretty soon." Clayton joins us
now for more. Clayton, welcome. Do you
think we're underestimating the
potential for severe disruption over a
prolong period?
>> Good morning, Jonathan. You know, in my
opinion, the market is still giving the
Trump administration the benefit of the
doubt, and it has been since markets
reopened yesterday after the start of
this war. It's assuming that Washington
has a plan uh for not letting uh energy
supplies be curtailed enough to really
cause uh a return of inflation and
negative effects for the economy. But
the sand is falling through the
hourglass. And so, as you've already
reported this morning, prices are
continuing to march higher. I'm
surprised frankly that they're not
higher still. Uh but nevertheless, the
market is giving the benefit of the
doubt and just assuming that there is a
plan here to mitigate the worstc case
fears.
>> Before we get into Clayton and how high
oil prices could go, I'm just wondering
what you make of uh what we heard from
Rubio yesterday, Secretary Rubio talking
about mitigation tactics to lower energy
prices. What levers can the US pull at
this point?
It's going to be really interesting to
see what's included in this package. Um,
probably uh there will be consideration
for short-term measures that could
include potentially a gasoline tax
break. It could include uh waving
certain regulations that add up to the
cost of uh production and of both crude
oil and refined products. So you could
get some relief on the supply side. And
then of course there are also bigger
tools in the toolkit potentially like
using the strategic reserves that the
United States maintains. We have a lot
less than we did before 2022 uh only
about 415 million barrels on hand but
could still cover our needs for quite a
while.
>> What about Venezuela? How does Venezuela
factor into this? Some people might say,
well, actually, the fact that Middle
East oil might be disrupted, the US can
lean on Venezuela production, ramp it
up, and actually stave off some of the
shortages that a place like Europe is
experiencing. Is there any credence to
that?
>> I think that there's a a basic
misreading of the arithmetic there. I
mean, Venezuela on a good day, now that
the quarantine is largely lifted,
produces 1 million barrels per day. The
world uses 100 million barrels per day.
And as you guys have reported, a fifth
of that 20 million barrels per day come
from the Middle East Gulf. So Venezuela
couldn't hope to offset more than a
small fraction of the export flows that
have so far been halted coming through
the straight of Hormuz. Uh traders and
investors are going to be looking to see
when those exports can be resumed in
order to have confidence that we'll save
off that worst case scenario.
>> Can we just stay on that important
waterway? So we know the traffic is
basically ground to a hole. This is the
straight of form and we also know that
Saudi has the ability to divert some
shipments through the East West
pipeline. I believe it can carry
something like 5 million barrels per
day. This headline just crossed the
Bloomberg terminal, Clayton, and I'll
share it with you as I read it. Ramco is
exploring a plan to export crude through
the Red Sea to avoid the straight
altogether. Clayton, how do these
workarounds?
>> They're doable, but they're limited,
Jonathan. So you're right that maybe the
um the name plate capacity of that
pipeline, the East West pipeline that
connects the producing region in the
Gulf with the Red Sea is about 5 million
barrels per day. But you got to remember
it's already about 50% in use. They're
already uh transporting for export on
the Red Sea and also offtake to several
Saudi Aramco refineries along the way
about half of that capacity. So you
really only have on the order of 2 and a
half million barrels per day that can be
diverted from the Gulf where they're
exporting between five and six. It's
just a fraction of the daily
requirements.
>> Clayton, last thing, Stan, are you more
concerned about developments on the
crude side, oil, or on the gas side?
You know there's a very close parallel
there because the world is dependent on
uh it 20% of its total needs from that
region for both oil if we look at crude
and refined products together and then
also gas in the form of liqufied natural
gas almost all from Qatar which you've
reported this morning is is closed for
the time being and so we have acute
concerns for the economy on both fronts
if we don't get these exports flowing
again soon and reestablish confidence
that the export terminal that are
loading the ships are going to be secure
from attack, then we're going to have
concerns about running short of both oil
and natural gas. That's going to drive
fuel prices higher and electricity costs
higher as well.
>> Clayton, which is the bigger existential
threat to energy supplies? Is it the uh
contraction of the straight of vermoose
and continued uh closure frankly
effectively to ships coming through or
is it some of the recent attacks on
energy facilities in the Middle East?
>> Yeah, I think it's the facilities are an
even uh a greater concern than the
shipping. I look at it like this in
simple terms. Uh if you go to the
supermarket to buy your groceries and
the exit to the parking lot is closed,
you can't get your groceries home. But
the exit can be reopened probably
relatively easily. If you go to the
store and there's no electric power and
there's also no groceries. It doesn't
really matter whether the exit to the
parking lot is open or closed. That's
that's kind of what we're looking at
here in the Middle East Gulf, I'm afraid
today.
>> Clayton, appreciate that framework for
thinking about things. Thank you, sir.
Clayton Seagull there of CSIS. A
thoughtful conversation about the latest
developments in energy. So this is the
latest headline crossing the Bloomberg
terminal that Ramco is exploring a plan
to export crude through the Red Sea to
avoid the straight of Hmers altogether.
We'll look for details on that plan. As
we discussed there, there is a pipeline,
an east west pipeline that can carry 5
million barrels a day from Saudi and
push that out to the rest of the world.
But as Clayton's talked about just then,
Brammo, effectively a lot of that is
already in use. There are workarounds,
but it's limited, which is why that
straight, that waterway is still so
important.
>> Yeah. and it still is the choke point
frankly for a lot of these supplies
coming through. The issue that we have
today and the reason why you're seeing
the prolonged and extended sell uh rally
in some of these energy prices is
because you are getting the one-two
punch. On one hand a question around the
construction of the street of Hermuz,
but also uh a the workarounds aren't
clean, neat, or easy and b the idea that
you're getting these attacks directly on
energy facilities does change the
equation. So even if OPAC plus wants to
increase production, can they if they
have this type of uh damage done to
their facilities?
>> It's production and movement. Crude at
the moment just off the highs. We're up
by 7% on Brenda, 83. Our WTI up by a
similar amount. Our WTI crude this
morning, higher to about 7615. In just a
moment, we'll catch up with Jordan
Rochester of Mazou. A big moment for
Europe. Is it time to pull out the 2022
playbook? We'll have that conversation
in just a moment. Then Yhara is going to
pop back. We'll get shares of Target for
you. Rising as a turnaround starts to
pay off. There's a bright spot in the
market. We found it somewhere. Target up
by 4% this morning. The broader equity
market not doing so well. We're negative
1.4 on the S&P and big losses developing
in Europe as well. The DAX, the equity
benchmark in Frankfurt, Germany down by
more than 3%. In Italy, we were down by
close to five. We're now down by almost
four. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
Equities
down by 1.4% recovering somewhat. They
were down by as much as 2% earlier on in
the session. On the NASDAQ, we're down
by 1.8. On the Russell, holding on to
losses, down by two full percentage
points. The epicenter of the repricing
worldwide is the repricing right here in
energy on crude on gas WTI and on Brent
Brent briefly through 85 8320 right now
and in the bond market it's leading to a
repricing across the curve worldwide in
bonds like treasuries in guilts on a
2-year state side right now yield are
higher by eight basis points following a
double digit move yesterday 355 on twos
and that is breathing some life into the
US dollar the dollar yesterday had its
best day Since July of last year, the XY
is up by 1.6% in just two sessions and
again this morning. The dollar is
stronger against everything in G10
including the euro. The euro with a
brief break of 116. Euro dollar negative
by.7%.
>> Yeah, two things. The US dollar is a
haven again, especially because it is
more resilient to some of these shocks
than say Europe which is uniquely
exposed to energy shocks. That's number
one. But number two, when you take a
look more broadly at a scenario where
you have this kind of shock in the US,
there are so many levers that they can
pull and you are seeing people really
embrace that.
>> There are some tailwinds for the US
economy that will stay regardless of
what happens here. The massive tech
capex, the tax cuts that we're going to
have or rather the tax relief I think is
probably a better way of phrasing it and
the refunds we might see in the coming
months. How that's spent that should be
a discussion. And the rate cuts already
in the pipeline from the last 12 months.
The US economy should be quite well
supported. It's got the energy
production as well. Europe is far more
vulnerable unfortunately on this
particular occasion.
>> Which raises the question to me whether
the ECB really has to do as much because
the stag part of the flation becomes
significantly more relevant than say in
the United States where you have more
growth that can genate generate a little
bit more inflation. Nonetheless, it is
proven out in 2022. They have to
respond. Question is, is it just going
to be monetary or is it also going to be
on the fiscal side? The euro at 116 2
hours away from the cash open. Let's get
you some single names some morning
movers. Yahihara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. The target turnaround is
finally taking hold. We are seeing
shares up 3.3%
in the pre-market after the company
posted a better thanex expected profit
outlook for the full year. And the bar
was high for Target. shares were up uh
16% year to date as we've seen investors
rotate into retailers and other areas of
the market that they see as less
vulnerable to AI. So, Target bucking the
riskoff trend we're seeing this morning.
Also bucking that trend are oil stocks.
Take a look at Battalion. This is a a
small oil firm out of West Texas. Shares
are up more than 100% as these companies
track the broader spike we're seeing in
oil prices. Chevron, Exxon also higher
on fears of a supply crunch and of
course higher oil prices of course means
higher jet fuel costs and that is what's
putting pressure on the airlines again
this morning. But not just that we are
seeing uh big disruptions with airline
cancellations topping 12,000 around the
globe. Plus you have this idea that if
tensions continue to rise people will
think twice about booking a trip. John
>> Yara thank you. double whammy one-two
punch as you said for some of these
names including the airlines energy cost
one fuel costs and then you've got the
traffic problems in the Middle East
right now all of that is just shut down
never mind as Yhari just mentioned the
anxiety associated with traveling I
think more broadly at the moment it's
not a great time to be an airline all of
a sudden just like that in the last 48
hours
>> we were talking about the nostalgia of
worrying about AI is there a nostalgia
about government shutdowns for the for
the airlines given the fact that this
feels more existential and frankly comes
with real fear on the part of travelers
>> on a radar this morning. The Secretary
of State Marco Rubio saying the US
military will step up attacks against
Iran.
>> I'm not going to give away the details
of our tactical efforts, but the hardest
hits are yet to come from the US
military. The next phase will be even
more punishing on Iran than it is right
now.
>> Lisa Rubio denying the regime change is
the end goal, stating the focus is to
destroy Thran's ballistic missile
program and naval fleet, but also
suggesting we might get a plan. And I
think it's important to see the details
of this plan to offset any potential
energy pain.
>> Yeah, there's a real question what
levers they can pull and people have
been pointing to the strategic petroleum
reserve. What did you call it? The
strategic midterm reserve back in 2020.
>> That's what it was. I don't think I
coined that. That's the one I liked, but
yes, that's what it was back then.
>> Well, let's take a look at the strategic
midterm reserve. We saw it go down from
more than 600 million barrels now to 415
million barrels. It's declined by some
37% since that peak in 2020. And we're
looking at potentially doing it again
because guess what? It's midterm season
and you just wonder how far can you go
with this type of reserve before
suddenly we got nothing left and you
have to pull some other uh uh other
moves to try to offset some of the pain
that people are.
>> So we don't know if that's the plan but
yes the Biden administration did drain
this ahead of the midterms last time
around and it has been depleted and
hasn't been completely restored and you
can see it in that particular chart.
>> So to me this raises a question do they
have other things in mind and we were
talking earlier with strategists who
talk about removing the tax on gasoline.
This is going to be a pain point at a
time where this isn't that popular and
you do wonder how much people are
pushing to try to get some sort of
solution.
>> The Treasury Secretary is currently
quite busy. Scott Besson and the US
trade representative Jameson Greer are
meeting with Chinese officials in Paris
later this month. People familiar with
the matter telling us here at Bloomberg
that officials are laying the groundwork
for the upcoming summit between
President Trump and China Xiinping. And
finally, OpenAI the CEO Sam Alman saying
the company's push to make a deal with
the defense department looked quote
opportunistic and sloppy. Alman posting
on X that OpenAI is working with the
Pentagon to ensure AI isn't used for
domestic surveillance of Americans.
>> This is because people moved to
anthropic open AI was beset by a whole
host of uh you know quit chat GPT and go
to Claude and you also had push back
from his own employees. It feels a
little bit like
over here I think oh yeah we should go
over here uh because some people are
pressuring me. It doesn't really scream
of, you know, significant stance or
backbone
>> competence.
>> Yeah.
>> Doesn't scream competence,
>> you know. Thank you.
>> Yes.
>> You said it, I didn't, but you know, you
were going. You danced around enough
sort of figure. Exact. Thank you. I
think that that very much expresses it.
>> Yeah. Let's turn to foreign exchange.
The dollar rising once again today as
President Trump says there is no fixed
timeline for the conflict in Iran.
Jordan Rochester of Missouo saying it
will be measured in weeks, not days.
adding he was quote flabbergasted when
some clients argued against our decision
to flip into short euro dollar which
told me the market had not yet fully
woken up to the new reality. Jordan
joins us now for more. Jordan, what is
that new reality?
>> John, I'm surprised you went with a
flabbergasted quote. I'm not sure all
the listeners know what it means, but it
means I was in shock and awe essentially
to what essentially the narrative has
been, which is fade this by the dip.
That's the old narrative. I think
everything you knew about the sort of
geopolitical Middle East oil crisis of
the past 3 years, whatever you thought
was the case for the script on Friday,
you need to flip it because this is a
career-defining moment, John. This is a
terms of trade shock. And whilst we can
argue about that, it might not last so
long in terms of the kinetic action. The
rate of intense uh fire won't last last
the same speed. Just imagine a world
where you have a 5% hit or a 10% hit to
the flows through the straight of Hose
lasting longer than just a few days, but
months. This is something that pushes up
energy prices all to the benefit of the
US a net terms of trade exporter of oil
and energy. This is something that we
can only use the 2022 playbook John
which is when you saw massive hits to
the European trade balances the current
accounts went negative and you saw huge
devaluation in the euro. Now I do not
think we're going to have the same sort
of story. I do not think we're talking
about the parity in the euro because
there's one man who can decide to end
all of this which is Donald Trump. he
can quickly find a way to come to some
sort of resolution if he wants to. He
can give up on the whole enterprise
entirely if he so chooses. But the
problem for us right now, John, is we
we're in markets where we don't know
what's going to happen. So, we have to
price in the tail risks. We have to
price in that tail risk scenario that
lowers Euro's valuation quite quickly.
The move right right now has been small
versus what it could be if we're talking
weeks and months rather than days.
>> So, how well priced do you think we are
at 116 and what kind of numbers are you
considering? Well, look, we've got a
target, John, very very short term and I
think we'll be there by Friday of 114.
That's the sort of level we're talking
about. If I'm wrong about Friday, it's
next week. If as long as nothing changes
on the ground, if it's the same sort of
story and we don't know what the end uh
resolution is. If we're talking about
something that lasts for two months, 3
months, then you've got energy analysts
out there saying that the prices of
natural gas could double, uh oil prices
going to $100, and there's extreme
scenarios where it could go to $130. In
that scenario, John, the valuations of
euro go below 110 very easily. We're
talking the 105 levels and even the the
sort of levels I mentioned from 2022
with par. I don't think we'll get there,
but we have to be open to the idea of
it.
>> Jordan, you said one person can end
this. You're talking about President
Trump that he can just simply stop. Is
that true? I mean, isn't there a sense
that there is something else going on
here with respect to a conflict that has
already involved other uh nations in the
region and frankly has exposed that
Europe once again has this key
vulnerability of being susceptible to
energy shocks.
>> Indeed, the irony of the situation is to
avoid the sort of Russian sanctions,
most of the focus have been getting
supplied from the Middle East. Now
you've got both Russian sanctions for
Europe and Middle East outages. This is
a combination where with gas storage is
at the lows, Europe does not want to be
in. But I think Donald Trump, yes, he
does have the ability to end this
because he can define how victory is
declared a success. It's in Iran's favor
for this to deescalate as well as the US
and Israel uh are clearly having success
with their sort of priorities over the
past few days with the Iran Iranian
leadership taken out. So I think
eventually it will be Trump looking for
a quick win. We have to remember the
midterms are coming up. So he does not
want this to be something that drags
people into the polling booth to vote
about Lisa, but that is November. So I
think we're still talking a period of
time which we might be uncomfortable
with.
>> You know, Jordan, I'm going back to to
the to the note that John mentioned that
Jeff Curry uh wrote as well as Admiral
Stvites over the weekend with Carile
talking about how there has to be some
sort of security premium at least on
gas, on oil, and other natural
resources, things that have to be
shipped. In the same vein, doesn't there
have to be some sort of security premium
or a discount, I should say, put on
European risk assets and frankly the
currency as a result of this key
vulnerability to an energy shock whether
it's 2022 or 2026.
>> Indeed, it's hard to price that in fixed
income and foreign exchange markets, but
that will feed through to energy
importing companies and the likes. But
what what what your previous guests were
also talking about is how plans to sort
of circumvent the straight using
pipelines using the Red Sea. But Lisa, I
think the Red Sea is a fantastic example
of what the end outcome could be. The
Red Sea has about half the amount of
cargo container flow that it used to
have. Two years ago, Hui started their
strikes or just a bit over two years
now. And the Swiss canal has seen a 50%
drop in its volumes as a result of ships
going bypassing that risk and using the
Cape of Good Hope instead. The straight
of is very different. We don't really
have the ability to bypass it. We have
these pipelines that are trying to, but
they can't do the entirety of the flows
that go through there. So, you're going
to see a logist this is a war, Lisa,
which is also a logistics crisis because
the long-term impact of this, which will
take weeks and months to clear out is
the high cost of shipping through
insurance term premium. That's something
that will take a while to play out and
that will add to energy prices alone.
Jordan, just before you go, Chancellor
Reeves, of course, as we speak, is
delivering the spring statement in the
UK, which I'm sure you've got one eye on
as you follow the uh the headlines
dropping out. Jordan, when you look at
the situation in the United Kingdom and
rate pricing around the Bank of England,
a lot of that has been priced out when
the Bank of England has set us up for
those cuts. Can you walk us through the
sensitivity of these central banks in
Europe to these developments?
>> Well, first thing is it's inflation
inflationary for all of them. So, you
just have to remember that. You have to
think about the starting position. John,
inflation in the US is below 3%. It's
pretty benign. The forecast in terms of
the curb were below 3% for the rest of
this year. The UK's is above target, but
it's falling rapidly. Um, is the
forecast that we had of as of Friday.
That forecast has now shifted. It's
probably going to be above target now in
the Bank of England's sort of outlook.
and and that forecast is what was
driving them to talk about rate cuts
even though inflation has been
stubbornly above target for the past two
or three years. So the problem now for
the Bank of England pricing is the
motivation to pricing rate cuts as of
Friday was the forecast coming down.
Everything's going to be fine. That's
not the case anymore. It means that a
rate cut from the Bank of England is now
quite difficult to see. I think they
might go ahead with March, John. It's
more of a 50/50 at this stage, but it'll
be one of the most hawkish cuts they can
do and it might be the last in the
cycle. And the market is now flipped to
saying that the risks are just like
2022. We got to stop being doubbish and
think about rate hikes to come.
>> It's big change. Jordan, thank you, sir.
Jordan Rochester there of Missouo on
rate pricing and foreign exchange.
Flabbergasted. You got flabbergasted,
didn't you?
>> Of course I got flabbergasted. It's a
fantastic word. It's on nanopic. I
totally butcher that one.
>> Translates, doesn't it?
>> 100%. I'm flabbergasted that he thought
that we wouldn't understand what
flabbergasted is.
>> What's he talking about?
>> 100%.
>> The president put a statement just
moments ago. This is what the president
had to say. Their air defense, air
force, navy and leadership is gone. They
want to talk. I said too late. The
president of the United States just
moments ago.
>> Yeah. Coming out and talking about how
it really is. He was quote tweet uh
tweet quoting or quote tweeting or quote
truthing. We're witnessing the birth of
the Trump doctrine. Like Reagan, the
president has found a way to change the
world without putting boots in the
ground. It really raises a question, how
is he going to execute some sort of
endgame? We really haven't seen a
definition of what that looks like and
what the ultimate goals are. And as
Jordan Rochester was just saying, that's
key to figuring out when this
potentially could end.
>> We'll keep tracking crude for you higher
this morning by 7%. Brent at 8326 with
an update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Chinese foreign minister Wangi
is calling on Iran to pay attention to
the reasonable concerns of its
neighbors. That's after tan's
retaliation against US and Israeli
attacks included strikes on Qatar, the
UAE, and Saudi Arabia. The ministry says
Wang spoke by phone with his Iranian
counterpart, reaffirming China's support
for Iran's sovereignty and territorial
integrity. Meanwhile, we are seeing
shares of Target rising more than 4% in
the pre-market. The retail giant posting
an earnings beat for the fourth quarter.
Target also forecasting better than
expected profit for the full year,
indicating its turnaround plans are
starting to pay off. And Paramount Sky
Dance's debt downgraded to junk by
Fitch. The ratings agency making the
announcement after Paramount agreed to
buy Warner Brothers Discovery for $31 a
share or $110 billion. The deal will
saddle the combined business with $79
billion in net debt. Fitch putting
Paramount on negative watch pending
details of the deal. That's your brief.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, Fuel inflation
fears. this war with Iran, you know, if
it is short and oil goes to 80 or 90 or
100, but it's a short and not prolonged,
it probably won't have a major effect.
We'll see. Right now, this will add a
little bit, literally a teeny bit, to
inflation. If it becomes prolonged, then
all all bets are off the table.
>> Up next, Tony Rodriguez of New from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Somehow, I don't know how, we managed to
kick off March in the green just about
on the equity benchmark on the S&P 500
this morning. We're firmly in the red.
We were down by 1.3% at the lows. At
about 6:20 Eastern time, we were down by
more than 2% largely because of this
move in crude. Around the same time,
Brent crossed 85. Just off those levels
now up by more than 6% and pulling back
somewhat at 8270 leading to a repricing
in the bond market. Yields up yesterday
and again this morning. Two's up by
seven, 10's up by six. A 10ear just
short of 4.1%.
>> Yeah. And the real question here is
what's driving this? the idea that
there's going to be inflation, the idea
that there's going to be some sort of
response to it in terms of lowering
prices or potentially uh just in general
people are selling what they can, not
necessarily what they want.
>> Let's talk about this moment for the
bond market under suspended this morning
fueling inflation fears.
>> Geopolitics is a major issue. It's much
more complex today than it has been
since World War II. Inflation is a big
thing. It's not just oil. Uh so, you
know, we'll see. Right now, this will
add a little bit, literally a teeny bit
to inflation, not a lot. This war with
Iran, you know, if it is short and oil
goes to 80 or 90 or 100, but it's a
short, not prolonged, it probably won't
have a major effect. If it becomes
prolonged, then all all bets are off the
table.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Treasury yields rising for a second
straight day as higher energy costs add
to inflation concerns. Tony Rodriguez of
New writing, "Higher near-term inflation
modestly reduces room for the Fed to cut
rates as much this year, but may
increase the scope for cuts next year."
Tony joins us now for more. Tony, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Jamie Diamond, speaking to Lisa
yesterday, worried about the skunk at
the party showing up, and that skunk is
inflation. Did it just make an
appearance?
>> Uh, it's definitely in the neighborhood
and I think that's what the market's
reacting to.
>> Smell it.
>> I'll stop. Carry on, please.
>> You're killing me, John. Um but yeah,
the inflation dynamic has clearly
changed, right? I mean, the view was
that, hey, inflation is going to be
sticky but heading in the right
direction, this makes it stickier for
longer. So, while we're not thinking
this is necessarily something that at
the moment requires any policy pivot, we
do think it looks like it's going to
generate a policy pause. So, the
market's reacting to that, that
inflation is going to be maybe a little
bit stickier. The growth negative
implications, while they're real,
they're more likely to be delayed
relative to the near-term impact of
those higher oil prices on near-term
inflation prints.
>> What do that mean for pricing? So,
clearly we've seen a big repricing of
the curve, yields up over the past two
days, but we'd seen a big repricing of
the curve the other way in the previous
month. So, what does 4.1% mean to you
and the team? So Tulsa really puts us in
the middle of what we have said would be
the range for the year of four to four
and a quarter ending the year at the
lower end. So we were a little surprised
at how kind of expensive rates got uh
just you know a couple weeks ago. So now
we're just back in the middle of the
range. That's not really going to be
problematic for the market in our
opinion. What's going to be a problem is
if oil prices continue to rise, then all
of a sudden you have a stronger
inflation impact, which could hurt
obviously the Fed's ability to respond
and ultimately a much more negative
demand hit from those higher energy
prices as the year progresses.
>> Not to be too technical, but I
understand why that would affect two
years and fiveyear uh Treasury yields. I
don't understand why that would affect
10-year Treasury yields the way that it
has because ultimately if you have that
near-term shock to your point, it
suppresses growth over the long term and
ultimately 10-year Treasury yields could
provide a haven to that shock if you do
believe that it is a stagflationary like
uh catalyst. So what's the thinking
there? So I think the thinking there is
that you could still get those that
those those inflation dynamics if they
get embedded in inflation expectations
when you combine that with fiscal
dynamics that really provide very little
room and are clearly pressuring the term
premium higher ultimately that leads to
a higher equilibrium rate for the 10ear
even in an environment where you might
see that weaker growth. How vulnerable
would uh long-term treasuries be if this
administration does announce some sort
of program to lower prices on energy for
consumers? Whether it's uh just
absolving some of the taxes on gasoline,
whether it's direct infusions into
households. I mean, how much would that
be something that this bond market would
be very sensitive to?
>> Uh we think it'd be very sensitive to it
because right, we've argued that this
year we're going to see a greater impact
from fiscal dynamics than monetary
dynamics. So anything that pushes
further in that direction to us
continues to build the term premium
higher and that is problematic for the
longer end of the market. That would
probably in our minds push it to not the
lower end of our range for the year but
possibly through the higher end of the
range if you really got a significant
deterioration in those fiscal dynamics.
>> You thought we'd be talking about
payrolls this morning, didn't you?
>> I did. But
>> we'll be talking about payrolls on
Friday 8:30 Eastern time. How important
is that number? You know, I think it's
only important now in the context of it
creating a really big surprise, right?
To the extent that we're significantly
above or below what consensus looks
like, then I think it can maybe get back
into the narrative. But while this kind
of geopolitical situation is going on,
that's going to have the headlines
deservedly. So,
>> you think we've become less sensitive to
headline payrolls anyway over the last
12 months?
>> I think we probably have because we have
been in a fairly narrow range and we
have had an unemployment rate that's
been relatively steady. So it hasn't
really been been a driver of
macroeconomic fundamentals in our minds.
We've been far more I think sensitive to
corporate earnings and what's happening
with the AI storyline from an earnings
from a debt borrowing perspective.
>> To that point, could potentially a
negative payrolls report have a bigger
ramification for risk assets? Not
necessarily in the Treasury market, but
for risk assets, some of the riskier
credit in particular that's been holding
up because people feel pretty good about
the US economy.
>> I think it could. And partly it's also
because it will play into that narrative
of AI replacing all the jobs. So if you
get a weak employment report, it'll
certainly increase that narrative as to
hey this is happening faster than
anybody thought. So the downsides of
that obviously would be pretty
significant for consumers.
>> Tony, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Tenner Rodriguez of New
squeezed in payrolls for you at the end
just in case you wanted to talk about
it. The estimate on Friday 59k that's
the median in our survey. The range
again once again is pretty wide. At the
high end is 113. At the low end is
negative9. The payrolls report a few
days away.
>> Yeah, I remember when it was the biggest
thing that we were going to be talking
about this week. Exactly. Because of the
AI replacement story.
>> Feels like the world's changed, right?
>> It feels like uh some of the risks have
been put into perspective. Some kind of
human life risk where you really do have
lives and livelihoods put at risk. A
very different scenario than talking
about, you know, economic data and
exactly what this could mean for
monetary policy.
>> Woke up Monday morning going through the
equity moves and just seeing a ton of
research. We all read the same stuff.
Basically saying the same thing. You
fade it. Geopolitics. The history of
this means you fade it. You buy any dips
and you move on. On the commodity side,
when you speak to people in commodities,
they're not talking about the energy
market in the same way people are
talking about the stock market. They're
not saying fake this. They're talking
about repricing a structural premium
because of the tension there and the
scarring that you could see in commodity
markets, looking out several years, not
looking out several days. This isn't
analogous to 2022 for one reason, which
is this is the first time you're seeing
Middle East nations at war with one
another and disrupting each other's oil
supplies and that is a different
backdrop.
>> Frank Crew this morning just short of 83
after briefly breaking through 85.
Coming up, we'll catch up with Daryl
Kron of Wells Fargo, Stacy Whidlets of
SW Retail Advisors, Steven Stanley of
Santandere, plus we'll catch up with the
Flexport CEO Ryan Pettison.
You have to price in a little bit more
risk.
>> A regime that is now under threat does
not fear consequences.
>> I don't think this is going to really
disrupt markets.
>> The subdued reaction is partly due to
the fact that we kind of had this move
ahead of time.
>> I don't want to count against corporate
America. They seem to be rising to the
occasion on just about every single
issue we've seen. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Let's try and navigate this at a
measured pace. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good morning
from our audience worldwide. The third
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance stats
right now. And your scores look like
this. Off the lows, we were down by as
much as 2% at the lows a few hours ago
on the S&P 500. Now down by 1.4%. Given
that crude is off the highs, we were
trading around 85 at one point around
620 Eastern time. Now at 8242 and up 6%
on the session. Big repricing in gas
prices in Europe. It continues for a
second consecutive day. Yesterday up and
today up again up by 72% in two
sessions. Now once again off the highs,
but still this is a major repricing that
we're all trying to recalibrate to in
the past few days. Look, the region is a
choke point for oil, but it's even more
of a choke point for liqufied natural
gas with cutter accounting for a fifth
of the world's total supplies coming
from one stateowned enterprise, which is
Cutter Energy, which closed its uh
production yesterday. So, a real
question here for liqufied natural gas.
But on the whole, we are dealing with a
scenario that people are grappling to
get their heads around because we don't
know what the off-ramp is. We don't know
what victory looks like and we don't
know exactly how far the disruption will
go given the fact that not only is it a
shipping issue, but it's also a
production issue increasingly with the
ongoing attacks.
>> It's not just about the straight. You're
absolutely right. It's not just about
the movement of energy, it's the
production of energy. We saw one of the
largest refineries in Saudi Aramco,
Saudi Arabia rather, come under attack
yesterday. We've seen LG production in
Kata shut down as well. And for the
Europeans, they are far more vulnerable
to this story than the US is. far more
vulnerable and one country is even more
vulnerable and it's China and China is
the nation coming out this morning
pushing to reopen the straight of
Hormus.
>> This might be the more interesting part
of this entire equation and I'm so glad
that you brought China up because a big
question has been how would China
respond given that they get a
significant portion of their oil
supplies from Iran and are loosely
partners with the nation because of that
commodity uh resource. So, a question
here. Would they back Iran or would they
say hold on, hold your horses, stop it,
maybe like just let's get some calm here
so we can keep shipping going. So far,
it seems like they're in the latter
camp, which would seem to contain the
conflict a bit more. This is why people
are watching this so closely.
>> That's the push back from China. Let's
talk about the European moves. Equities
down and down hard. The DAX is down by
more than 3%. The Footsie M in Italy is
down by close to four. And this is off
the lows. It was a lot worse a few hours
ago. And a repricing we're seeing is not
just in equities, it's also in rates.
We've priced out lower rates at the Bank
of England. We're pricing in the risk of
higher rates at the ECB and down under
in Australia. They're talking about
every meeting being a live meeting. Now,
there are unique idiosyncratic issues
going on here for places like Australia,
but globally there is a repricing of
rates leading to a tightening of
financial conditions.
>> There is a new repricing of seglationary
risk that is coming to the market at a
time when people had really taken that
off the table a bit more. seeing a
pathway to get to some sort of soft
landing scenario. Does that torpedo
this? And it's that much more the case
for Europe given the fact that they are
more susceptible to energy prices. They
don't have the same kind of levers like
AI and energy companies like the United
States does.
>> So the good news this morning is that
we're off the lows. The bad news is that
we're still down by 1.4% on the S&P.
Coming up this hour, Daryl Kron of Wells
Fargo as tensions between the US and
Iran intensify. Stacy Whitz of SW Retail
Advisers breaking down which big box
chains are most exposed to a widening
war and the flexport CEO Ryan Pettison
with a conflict in the Middle East
restraining global supply chains. We
begin this hour with stocks heading
lower and energy rallying. Daryl Kron of
Wells Fargo Investment Institute
writing, "Markets will likely trade
defensively in the near term until the
endgame becomes clearer. Hold your
hedges if you have them in place." Daryl
joins us now for more. Daryl, welcome to
the program and thanks for making time
for us again this morning. What changed
for you and the team over the weekend?
>> Well, obviously the reaction, John, that
you're seeing um rates up, dollar up,
oil up, volatility up, right? The VIX is
sitting was sitting at 26 this morning,
which is the highest level we've seen on
the VIX since uh basically November,
October when we had the last kind of
bout when the US uh China negotiations
fell apart and some of the other
elements hit the market. You know what's
interesting is I think later today or
maybe even tomorrow, you could have
Treasury Secretary Bessett and Secretary
of State Rubio come out and release uh
or make an announcement about releasing
SPR, right, Strategic Petroleum Reserve
out of there. Um and it wouldn't shock
me if they've also somewhat negotiated a
coordinated IEA um uh pact as well with
the international energy uh agency which
you know is 30 plus advanced countries
based out of Paris as you've talked
about many times this morning. Europe is
most acutely affected here. Again, you
know, they they have limited amounts of
of oil they can push onto the market,
but just symbolically it would actually
be really important for the oil markets.
You could see oil trade even lower later
today. Notwithstanding, it's too early
to think that we're in a deescalation
moment.
>> So, Darl, is that a put for the bond
market or the equity market? And are you
expecting the support to come from other
policy makers then away from central
banks in a moment like this?
>> Yeah, I I I'm not sure that you could
it's too early to get probably a lot of
policy uh monetary policy support from
central bankers in in my opinion, John.
I mean, I think, you know, certainly,
um, the Fed is on hold here in the short
term. Um, but what it could do is if it
takes some of the steam out of oil
prices, it lessens the upside pressure
on rates. I mean, remember at call it
411 this morning on the 10-year, right?
It was just January 20th, we were at
430. And maybe more importantly, if I
spin the clock back 12 months, so
beginning of March of 2025, the 10ear
was at 432, right? So, it's actually 20
basis points lower. We know the Fed had
cut three times last year in that
scenario. Um I do think global central
banks, the ECB, maybe the B uh BOE are
going to have to, you know, add some
monetary stimulus, potentially consider
lowering rates. It changes the calculus
there because they're going to need to
with the pressure that's going to be on
Europe.
>> So Darl, are you saying that right now
you're buying the long long end of the
yield curve, anticipation of some sort
of action not only on the part of the
United States but globally to ease
It's a good question, Lisa. So,
actually, we've walked into this year,
even in our outlook before all of this,
you know, erupted with Iran, um,
thinking long-term rates needed to go
higher. So, we've been underweight, the
long side of the yield curve for quite
some time. um that played against us
early in the year, but as you start to
build in more of that inflation premium,
remember the long side of the curve is a
term premium, an inflation premium, and
a growth premium, right? So, if term
premiums are going to trend higher, and
if there still is sticky upward pressure
on inflation, uh look no further than
the PPI data we got last Friday.
Obviously, what's happening with oil
prices and everything else, we think the
trend still pushes hard on the long side
of the curve. So, the short answer is
no. I wouldn't be a buyer of the long
end of the curve. We think the best
riskreward still is in the belly of the
curve, the intermediate section of the
curve, um to to basically for fixed
income investors to get a good
riskreward trade-off here.
>> So, putting aside the bond market, is
there essentially a fiscal and monetary
put on the equity market right now? And
I say monetary, not necessarily the uh
Federal Reserve, but the central bank of
Nvidia. And I'm just wondering at what
point you see uh right now the United
States equity market benefiting from the
policy response that you just laid out.
Well, it absolutely would benefit from
it, but remember, we're in the process
right now of walking back, right? Uh
more Fed rate cuts. I mean, we're we're
now obviously back below two rate cuts,
50 basis points, uh in Fed funds futures
this morning. I think what's key for
equity markets um and this is really
important, right? We all know that tech
makes up call it 30% of the market cap
weighted index. But if I add tech and
financials together, which is where the
epicenter preIran with everything
happening in private credit and with the
software stocks, it makes up 45% of the
index. 45%. So almost half of the index.
So the market, the equity market with or
without monetary policy easing and
support is going to have a hard time
making that next leg higher. let's say
pushing through 7,000 on the S&P without
both of those tech and financials
participating again. So that narrative
is going to have to change for us to
kind of make that next leg higher.
>> Darl, given the moves we've seen over
the past few days, this has undermined
the cyclical recovery and the rotation
that a lot of people were really itching
to get behind for the year ahead.
>> Yeah. I think what people are
underappreciating, you know, I mean, if
you look at people have talked often
about uh John, the the the the
evenweight, you know, indicy for the S&P
is up 6%, call it year-to- date coming
into this morning's open, right? Smalls
are up seven, internationals up a
blended, you know, kind of uh lower
double digits. What people are missing
is the moves under the surface, right? I
mean, obviously, if if I take
commodities against the S&P, 15%
outperformance. If I take international
against, you know, domestic S&P, which
is where everybody's had their exposure,
it's 11 12% blended outperformance. If I
take value over growth, it's 11 12%
outperformance. Smalls over large, 7 to
8% outperformance. Right? So, there's
big structural moves under the surface
that I think investors, if you're just
looking at, you know, where's the S&P
trading on a market cap basis u uh and
and on off of its high, which is only
basically 2 to 3% off of its all-time
high. you're missing all that kind of
seismic move under the surface, which I
think is really important and I think
investors need to really pay attention
to that in their portfolios about maybe
the exposure of the last 2, three, four
years isn't going to play all the way
through in 2026 and out into 27.
>> Daryl, it's good to see you. Thanks for
catching up with us. Darl Kunk there of
Wells Fargo Wang on what we could see
from the administration. Interesting
point that ultimately he believes you
could get the administration step in,
release a lot of energy to support this
market in the months ahead.
>> Yeah. Well, what else are they going to
do? Is it really going to be a tax
issue? Or is it going to say, "Well,
it's been done before during the midterm
elections. Why don't we just deplete it
further?" Especially if we are getting
an influx of oil from elsewhere and the
US is producing a significant amount.
>> The US is well supported. What are we
producing now? 13 to 14 million barrels
a day. Something like that.
>> The US is well supported relative to say
a Europe. But when those tax refunds get
deployed, get dispersed. They have been
already in the coming weeks. We'll see a
lot more, I'm sure. When that happens,
anxiety is a key feature of how
consumers will behave. The confidence
they have or lack thereof around the
labor market, around meeting energy
payments, utility payments, gas prices,
that's going to be a feature of how they
think about things. The psychology of
how they approach and interact with this
US economy is going to be a key feature
of the discussions we have around this
table. If this continues,
>> it's going to be a key feature of the
political discussions as well, which
really points to the fiscal response.
This is the reason why people are
pointing to sentiment because it also
points to the midterm election outcome
and how much uh people want to affect
that sentiment. I will say so far the US
economy has been holding up pretty well.
Yesterday when I was down in Miami, I
was shocked at how much optimism there
was. Every single executive investor and
there were 3,000 people down there who I
spoke to were excited about what they
were seeing. It was a dissonance with
the uh with the worry about the war and
this idea of some sort of disruption to
energy. I mean, I just I was struck by
how that could prolong inflation more
than people realize just because if
everyone's so excited about growth and
investment, well, you know, then they
can absorb some of these prices.
>> Do you think that might be unique to
Miami? Maybe. And the people that you
were surrounded by in Miami.
>> Yeah, I was talking to them. They were
shirtless on the beach. They were very
excited about the world ahead.
>> I don't think Jamie Dam has got problems
paying the utility bill. Do you?
>> Well, I don't think he's shirtless on
Miami Beach either.
>> That's true as well. Brent crude up by
7% 8326 at the moment. He might be. Who
knows? Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yhara has more. Hey, Yihara.
>> Hi, John. Israel and Iran exchanging a
new round of air strikes with the
conflict now in its fourth day. The IDF
saying it struck a senior commander in
Thran and identified a wave of missiles
launched toward Israel from Iran.
Despite the strikes, President Trump
posting in the last hour on Truth Social
that Iran's air defense, air force,
navy, and leadership is quote gone.
Saudi Aramco is exploring the option of
delivering more cargos to Yanbu, a port
in the Red Sea. As the strait of Hermuse
remains effectively closed, the world's
biggest oil exporter has a 5 million
barrel a day pipeline that runs across
the country, which can transport oil
from fields in the east to the Red Sea
in the west. And OpenAI amending its
contract with the US Defense Department
just days after it was signed. CEO Sam
Alman saying the rush to make a deal
last week looked quote opportunistic and
sloppy. In a post shared on X, Altman
saying his company is working with the
department to make some additions to the
agreement to make its principles very
clear. That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yhara later this hour. Up
next, we'll get you some morning calls.
Plus, we'll catch up with Stacy Whitz of
SW Retail Advisor breaking down which
big box chains are most exposed to the
conflict in the Middle East. from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
is the market kind of this discounting
mechanism that's saying hey energy was
getting better regardless of this and if
we get any sell the news in energy or
oil over the next couple weeks that's
actually what you want to be buying as
opposed to any relief rally in consumer
discretionary that's where we are right
here I think energy is the leadership I
think it's been the leadership
>> it's the leadership for the wrong
reasons this morning Chris Verona
strategist joining us there crude having
a big rally year today coming into this
through February and January higher by
something like 20% now higher by
something like 30 plus big moves in the
equity market once again. Futures
negative by 1.4% on the S&P holding on
to losses on the NASDAQ. The NASDAQ and
the tech players actually supported the
stock market yesterday. This morning a
different story. The Russell is down by
two percentage points. I mentioned a
move in energy. So let's check it out
together. Brent and WTI much higher
again up by 7%. Brent briefly through 85
about 2 hours ago. 8342 as things stand.
And in the bond market once again Lisa
saw it yesterday. Bonds down, yields up.
See it again this morning. Bonds down,
yields up.
>> Yeah. And it's kind of a two-pronged
issue. On one hand, it will cause the
Fed to think twice about how quickly
they will cut rates in the face of
inflation. And on the other hand, if
there is some sort of fiscal response,
what does this do to the fiscal side
that causes the term premium to
increase? So that one two punch over on
the bond side also taking play.
>> And that's not just a US story. We're
seeing that worldwide and much more in a
place like the UK where guilt yields
were up by double digits across the
curve, up by almost 20 at the front end
earlier on this morning. That's the bond
market. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up there, downgrading
MongoDB to neutral and slashing its
price target, saying limited AI revenue
could create overhangs on the stock.
Your second call from HSBC upgrading
block to buy, seeing 20% upside in the
shares. The analyst saying job cards are
not coming from a position of weakness.
That name is down by 2%. And finally,
Bank of America lowering its price
target on Lulu. The firm warning new CEO
Calvin McDonald could call for an
operational reset. Speaking of
confidence, this has not been going well
over at that company.
>> How did they get see-through pants
again? I mean, first of all, they were
behind the fact that pants loosened up
for the fitness trend, but then they
also are dealing with once again saying,
"Well, maybe people aren't wearing them
well or they aren't wearing them right."
That is not what people who are going to
work out want to hear. That maybe your
body just doesn't fit or you're not
wearing them properly. Is that what
they're saying?
>> That was what they originally said a
like many years ago when they came under
fire. They were like, but in this
instance, they were see-through. The
quality was in question. I mean, do they
and then they said it was okay. That
that was how it was meant to be. And
people were like, well, I don't really
want them to be see-through, please. No,
thank you.
>> Sure. Yeah.
>> Okay. Lulu not in a good place right
now. Let's stick with retailers. Target
shares rising after the company forecast
better than expected profit for the
year. The CEO, Michael Vidowki, saying,
quote, "Target saw a healthy, positive
sales increase in February, serving as
an important milestone on our path back
to growth this year." Stacy Whitz of SW
Retail Advisor joins us now for more.
Stacy, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning. Good to see you.
>> Is the turnaround actually starting to
bite.
>> I think it's early, but the the good
news, the big headline, as you just
said, was February comps were positive
when the quarter was down two and a half
here, and that was largely within
expectations. I mean, I think the
problem here is we all know Target has
been losing a massive amount of their
highincome consumer share to Walmart.
That tends to be very sticky. They have
to earn that back by cleaning up their
stores, getting their people out of the
fulfillment in the back and moving them
to the store floor to engage the
customer. So, we need to see the old tar
mojo come back.
>> There are consumer problems and then
there are just execution problems. Is it
fair to say that Target has suffered
with the latter and not the former? This
is an execution issue with this company.
I
>> I think so. And if you look at the
spread between Walmart comps and Target
comps, it's about 700 basis points.
That's massive for a company like
Walmart that does 700 billion in
business. So if you if you look at that,
you say, okay, execution here. So
there's a big opportunity for them this
quarter. They did a little bit better in
home or less bad. Um they have a long
way to go in apparel. And of course
bringing back all those exciting brands
that we used to see years ago. You know
that can drive the customer back.
>> How difficult is it to execute some sort
of turnaround plan at a time when
shipping is being disrupted on a global
basis? We're talking about inflationary
pressures from oil prices, but also just
questions now. Okay, great. You've
rerouted your supply chains. Well,
supply chains are broken down yet again
for a different reason. We've had
whiplash, right? Last week the tariffs
were supposed to get better then maybe
they're getting worse and this week who
knows the world is upside down and
certainly gas prices are going to
increase for the consumer and for the
big box retailers that is not what you
see that is going to be a huge impact on
traffic and consumer confidence. But I
think for Target, what a couple things
that they're doing is, as we all know,
they started fulfilling from their
stores in the back of the stores and now
they're starting to change that around
and bring those salespeople back to the
floor to re-engage. So maybe we'll see
the stores be a bit cleaner. We've seen
them in, you know, frankly disarray for
the last couple years. But just to build
on that, we've seen uh an increase in
production costs in PPI and uh in in
products in particular and goods
inflation has come in a little bit
higher than people have wanted it to. We
just got this from Best Buy, which just
reported earnings that they're seeing
higher me memory component demand
driving cost inflation. You're seeing
that kind of cost inflation for goods
across the board. How difficult is it to
compete on price at a time when people
are more sensitive to things like higher
gas prices?
>> It's very difficult. But what's been so
interesting is over the last year and a
half, despite all this inflation that
we've been looking at, retailers have
drastically reduced their promotions and
margins have really held. And I think
what retailers have decided to do is
say, okay, even if our top line isn't
what we want, we're going to do it at a
higher margin. And it seems to me that
of the 60 companies that I cover, the
majority have stuck to that. So, as long
as everybody kind of sticks to that full
price, it works. But we are going to see
price increases being pushed through.
The question is how much more can the
consumer take?
>> Well, let's get into it. Who has pricing
power right now?
>> Well, if you look at it, it certainly
Walmart can offer just by sheer nature
of their size the best value in the
market. So, as you see consumer
confidence continue to be very shaky.
They're continuing to gain share
specifically, as I said, of the
higherend consumer who no longer, you
know, it's not a thing. Walmart is a
cool place to shop now. You can get your
food, you can get your apparel, you can
get everything there. And for consumers
right now, it's less about brand and
it's about convenience and price and
speed of delivery. And Walmart just
nails it on all three fronts.
>> This has been a story for the last
several years. You're either ultra
high-end Hermes, Louis Vuitton, all of
that stuff, or you're doing the opric
for retail stuff like TJX, which is
doing phenomenally well and has done for
a long, long time. What's happening to
the squeeze middle? How are the
operators in the middle navigating that?
Do they go up? Do they come down?
They're in no man's land.
>> They're in no man's land. And what
you've seen in the middle, whether it's
Macy's or some of the others, Kohl's, is
store closures, right sizing, and trying
to figure out what does our actual store
base look like? But most of these
companies like a Kohl's and a Macy's,
they have not grown since co, right? It
it's been while other companies have
been up and raising their prices like a
tapestry or Ralph Lauren have raised
their prices 30 to 50% since co and
gotten away with it and their revenues
are up double digits which shows you if
you have the right product you don't
have to promote anymore.
>> There's lots of talk on this program
about tax refunds. How do you think
those refunds are going to be spent?
We've talked about the utility costs,
the bills in the northeast for energy
costs, the housing bills are going to be
skyhigh. People have got to pay that. Is
there going to be the kind of
discretionary boom that some people are
discussing?
>> I don't think so. And if you see if you
look at even the data on debt, people
are taking out more personal loans to
pay off their credit card debt. It's I
think um and it's more household
essentials. What is performing well? It
is beauty is household essentials. It is
food. Target talked about the T. It's
people are spending an increasing share
of their wallet on necessities. And also
that's why Costco is just killing it.
Again, another name. traffic is up and
ticket. The only retailers that you see
that that's the case are a TJX, a
Walmart, a Costco. And by the way, if
gas prices go up, where are people going
to get their gas? They're going to
Costco where it's the cheapest relative
to the market.
>> True. Stacy, it's good to see you.
Thanks for sharing your thoughts. Thank
you. Stacy Whidlet's there of SW Retail
Advisors. In about five minutes time,
Bra is going to head to the exit because
Lisa is going to Bloomberg Invest the
Conference over the next two days. Who's
coming up?
>> Yeah. Well, um I'm really excited
actually. We're going to have a lot of
really good guests in particular having
to do with Soros uh fund management for
fund investment. Uh Don Fitzpatrick, I'm
going to be speaking with her about her
take on private credit and some of the
risks there. But obviously the real
dominant theme that was unexpected is
going to be how do you handle a
disruption like the conflict that we're
seeing right now in Iran and the trickle
out that could lead to some sort of
surge in inflation. And that's what
we'll be talking throughout the morning.
>> Taken over by events, haven't we?
>> In every way,
>> big time this week. What happened to AI
and private credit? It's still a
concern, but the story and the main
headline has changed. That's for sure.
Steven Stanley up next at Santandere
breaking down the economic impact of the
conflict in the Middle East. Plus,
Yahara will drop by. More on the
retailers. Best Buy, as Lisa mentioned,
shares up 11%. and that conversation up
next.
Keeping you on top of a story in the
Middle East, some headlines just crossed
in the Bloomberg. A call between the
foreign ministers of China and Israel as
reported by Chinese media. China opposes
the military strikes against Iran by
Israel and the United States. It's the
Chinese foreign minister, the Wangi
speaking on that phone call just moments
ago. We'll continue to get a readout of
that as expected given their exposure to
the region and the energy coming out of
it produced there and traveling through
the straight of Hormuz. Lots to cover
this morning. So, let's get to it as we
count you down to the opening bell.
Equity futures declining on the S&P 500
off the lows. The low about 2 hours and
10 minutes ago, we were down by more
than 2%. We're now down by just 1.55%.
And the notable underperformances in the
European equity market has been a story
through yesterday and again through much
of this morning. The stock 600 down by
three. The DAX is down by 3.6. In the
bond market, it's a similar story. Take
a look at treasuries. Yields are higher
at the front end of the curve by seven
basis points. On twos, on 10's up by
six. You see in Europe, much bigger
moves in places like the UK where guilt
yields are climbing by some 16 basis
points on a 10-year maturity. And at the
front end of the curve, even more. Off
the back of this this move in energy, a
repricing of crude on WTI and Brent when
you got the lows in the equity market
earlier, the precise exact same time you
got the highs in the crude market. Brent
through 85 briefly at about 618 620
Eastern time. Back down to about 83 8360
at the moment, up by more than 7% on the
session. It's the move in natural gas
that is really changing the conversation
in Europe. two-day surge up by close to
80% and sparking conversations for the
Europeans. A reminder of 22 and a
conversation about whether this is a
repeat volume two of the energy
disruption, the disaster of 2022 that's
dominating conversations in markets
worldwide. As we cut you down to the
opening bow here, state side 60 minutes
away. Let's get you some mornings.
Yahara has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Best Buy joining Target in
bucking the riskoff mood. We are seeing
shares rising nearly 10% in the
pre-market after the retailer delivered
a holiday quarter that wasn't nearly as
bad as some had feared profit uh was
higher ahead of expectations providing
relief for a stock that has had a rough
stretch down 8% year-to- date heading
into the report. Another bright spot in
the market is oil as we see shares of
Chevron and Exxon positive tracking uh
the spike in oil prices we're seeing due
to the conflict. Uh and special mention
to Battalion Energy those shares up
134%. This is an oil small oil company
based out of West Texas. And the
escalating conflict in the Middle East
is also weighing on the financials. Take
a look at JP Morgan down 1.8% in the
pre-market. The idea is if this
uncertainty holds that businesses uh
will pull back, consumers will pull back
and that will mean less loan growth for
the banks. You also have this idea that
more volatility means less deal making
and less M&A. And remember the sector
just last week had its worst sell-off
since the April scare of tariffs. John
>> Yhari, thank you. There's a lot of
support for this economy already in the
pipeline. the rate cuts we've seen over
the last 12 months, the tech capex spend
we're going to see over the next 12
months and have seen over the last
several years. Is the fiscal relief
component of this where I believe
there's some real uncertainty right now?
The tax refunds will get over the next
several months, several weeks. How is
that going to be spent when anxiety
around the labor market is sky-high and
now you've got the introduction of a
spike in energy prices as well? Let's
keep it on the economy. The risk of a
prolonged conflict in the Middle East
fueling fresh inflation fears and
pushing bond yields higher. Bloomberg's
Mike McKe has more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. When you ask where
people might spend their tax refunds, it
might be at the gasoline station. The
way things are going, uh, interesting
story on uh, the Bloomberg and on
Bloomberg.com this morning from Javier
Blas, our oil energy analyst, who notes
that we have only days to get something
settled with the straight of Hormuz
because there's no storage for the oil
that's now being produced and can't be
shipped out. And that will mean declines
in production which means longer range
problems for the economy. Now this is
not the 1970s although there are
certainly a lot of parallels but you
look back then and we had a much greater
GDP impact. Right now economists are
saying this could take a tenth to 2/10
off the o overall growth levels because
energy intensity is much lower. We've
got uh gasoline uh fuel standards and uh
energy standards for appliances and
things like that that have just uh made
our use of electricity a lot lower. And
also we're now the world's largest oil
producer and we were declining back in
the 1970s. So it leaves the question of
when does inflation hit and how fast and
how far does it go and what does that
mean for the Fed? The Fed's had
certainly some experience with this.
We're going to hear from a couple of Fed
officials this week and we're also going
to get the Fed Beige Book on Wednesday.
Neil Qashqari sits down with me today.
Uh the Beigebook Wednesday, ISM services
and ADP then claims and import prices.
The big question is you know who's
paying for the tariffs and then Friday
big day retail sales jobs and the
Chicago Boost School monetary policy
forum. is sort of an under the radar big
deal meeting of uh central bankers and
most of the Fed will probably be there
and we'll hear from some of them during
the day about how they're taking all
this in and of course that gives us
three or four more days now to get
there.
>> So Mike let's keep it on energy and talk
about rate pricing here states side as
you know we produce somewhere between 13
to 14 million barrels per day. Europe
doesn't have that luxury in quite the
same way. In fact they're far more
exposed now because they're less exposed
to Russia. they're more exposed to kata
and the LG that's produced there. Now
Mike, we've seen a repricing of rates
throughout the last 24 hours for the
Federal Reserve. Maybe slightly less
easing for the ECB. There was a
conversation earlier about the prospect,
the potential, not the inevitability or
the certainty, but the potential of
higher rates at the European Central
Bank. Mike, what's your interpretation
of what this energy shock could mean for
rate pricing looking out the next 12
months?
>> I want to go back to that 1970s idea. At
that point, the Federal Reserve and
other central banks lowered interest
rates to try to offset the impact on
consumers and then we got the great
inflation. So, uh the central banks have
learned a lesson on that. And if they
are looking at this and they can't
figure out uh what a rate cut would
actually do to help consumers without
touching off inflation, then they
probably aren't going to do anything.
And both the European Central Bank and
the Fed at this point think they're
pretty close to neutral. So they could
just sit for a while and that's probably
more likely than a rate increase. Now
what happens in the markets is going to
be a totally different story and we've
seen that turnaround in the last 48
hours with yields going up and if that
continues then the Fed has got something
to think about but probably stays on the
sidelines even with that.
>> Mike McKe thank you sir and you can see
this priced out through bond curves
worldwide. Treasury yields high
yesterday by double digits, up again
this morning. You can see it play out in
Europe as well. In Germany up by close
to 10 basis points at the front end of
the curve of the German curve and in the
UK up by 14 basis points and almost as
much as 20 earlier on in the session.
Let's talk about rate pricing in this
economy. Steven Stanley of Santandere
writing the inflation impact in the US
is meaningful coming at a time when the
Fed is struggling to tamp down
inflation. Steven joins us now for more.
Stephen, good morning.
>> Morning. It's a clear geopolitical
rupture, a shock over the weekend. Does
it morph into an economic shock in the
months to come?
>> I think it could, but as you as you and
Mike were discussing, the economic
exposures are very different in in
different places. I mean, the US is not
really a net energy importer anymore.
So, um, you know, we we're impacted
because prices move, uh, oil prices go
up and gasoline prices will move up and
and the like. I think the the danger is
much greater for uh for Europe, for
China, for Japan, other countries that
are large importers.
>> You and I don't know how long this is
going to last, so we should say that up
front. A lot of this is a guessing game
and the following conversation, much of
it will be scenario analysis. We do know
where we are though. We could take a
look around the economy and get a better
feel for things. How different is this
economy to the economy coming out of the
pandemic and the one that went into an
energy shock in 2022?
>> Yeah. Um, well, I mean, I I I think
we're in a different phase of the
business cycle, right? We were on a a
rapid up turn at that point, but from a
low level. Now, we're kind of cruising
along at at what I would consider to be
solid grow. We've had solid growth for
several years on end. I think we've the
prospect of very strong business
investment in 2026. As you said, the AI
build continues. Um, but there's a view
that the consumer is somewhat
vulnerable. Uh, you know, I'm I'm not
quite as gloomy on that as some are, but
but I think that's the concern. If
gasoline prices go up, you know, 30, 40,
50 cents a gallon, does that create a
shock for the consumer? It's what's
interesting, you know, as you were
talking about is the reaction of the
markets and in particular the bond
markets around the world. I I mean,
we've been trained over the years that,
oh, an oil shock is contractionary for
the economy and it really hurts the
consumer and don't worry about the
inflation because the Fed will look
through that. Um, that's not so much
been the initial reaction this time
around. And I think people are much more
focused on the inflation side which I
think is the right call given the
context which is the Fed has been trying
to bring inflation back down to 2% and
is struggling to do that and you've
heard even before this weekend you'd
heard a lot increasing frustration from
Fed officials that they weren't making
further progress on inflation.
>> So this raises a lot of questions but
let's stick with the consumer and the
health of consumer balance sheets. There
is a position, I would say
overwhelmingly the consensus position is
that consumer balance sheets are okay,
but they're vulnerable and that if you
get an inflation shock like this or any
kind of supply disruption that it's
unlikely to turn into an inflationary
spiral for that very reason and the hit
to the economy would be much bigger
because they would ultimately disengage.
Are you pushing back against that this
morning? Um I I mean I think that would
require kind of a worstc case scenario
for the events of the Middle East. And
as you said, we can't really rule
anything in or out at this point. Um but
if we look back to last year, we had the
experience of the of the 12-day war um
that was waged last year. Um this is
likely to be bigger and longer than that
was. But if the pattern is similar, then
I think most of the impacts are likely
to be shortterm. So, can the consumer
weather this sort of thing for a month
or two? Um, I I think that is that
should be no problem. If oil prices are,
you know, over $100 a barrel, two or
three months from now, I think that
becomes more problematic.
>> Stephen, as you know, there are obvious
differences between what happened last
summer, what's happening now. The
operation last summer was very targeted.
It was limited in scope. It was focused
on nuclear capabilities, and it was
certainly not open-ended like it is at
the moment. This feels much more
open-ended. It feels different. And the
kind of damage we're seeing is different
too. Not just for the production of
energy, but the movement of it as well.
The commodity guys, and this is
interesting to me, just tracking the
different conversations that are
happening on this program. The equity
guys will come on the program and
they'll talk about the history book, the
playbook, fade geopolitical risk. The
commodity guys are talking about
something different. They're talking
about scarring and the potential for a
repricing of a structural premium in
commodities. now because this whole just
in time delivery of commodities is not
the right way to play things and you
need to hoard them because you don't
know when something like this is going
to happen next. Do you think about
things slightly differently with regards
to that as well? Well, I think again I
what I would say about that is I think
the US vulnerability on that front is is
quite low compared to a lot of the other
economies around the world,
>> particularly the Europeans,
>> especially the Europeans, but also I
mean you've seen the the rhetoric out of
China. They're quite concerned as well
because they're very dependent on Middle
Eastern oil. Um, so I if if that becomes
a more persistent theme, I think it it
hits everyone to a degree because energy
prices will be higher, but I think the
US probably sees a smaller impact on
something like that than most of the uh
other major economies would.
>> We're going to get lots of data in the
next few days. ISM services, ADP, I
think Challenger job cuts as well, the
big one on Friday, not retail sales, but
payrolls. How relevant is that data now?
How relevant is it? Yeah, I I I mean I I
don't think that it's going to be super
important. Um we we already knew before
last weekend that the Fed was likely to
be on hold in the short term. Um and
they're even more on hold now, I would
say. Uh so, you know, the the February
jobs numbers is important in the context
of knowing what's going on in the
economy at the moment, but it's not
likely to change the near-term
trajectory of policy. So I think from
that perspective you you can't give it
the you know the the the huge
highlighting treatment that you might
otherwise.
>> Do you think Kevin Walsh is happy he
doesn't start until June? Hey
>> I I mean look the last couple of weeks
have been crazy. Um but who knows June
might be even crazier.
>> Who knows precisely Stephen it's good to
see you. Thanks for joining us. Thank
you sir. Stephen Stanley there of
Santandere. If you're just tuning in
welcome to the program. Yields are off
the highs. was still higher by six or
seven basis points across the curve.
Crude is off the highs as well. Energy
at the moment, Brent and WTI. Brent
crude at 83. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhierra has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. Target shares are higher, up 2
and a.5% after forecasting better than
expected profit for the full year. A
sign the retailer's turnaround plans are
finally taking hold. It's aiming to end
a three-year sales slump by investing to
improve merchandise, refresh stores, and
integrate new technology.
The International Energy Agency is ready
to help stabilize the global oil market
in the wake of the Iran conflict.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that IEA member countries are holding
over a billion barrels in emergency
stockpiles and can bring additional
supply when needed. The agency is
meeting today to discuss the situation
in the Middle East. And airlines around
the globe are suspending more flights
across the Middle East as the Iran
conflict expands. More than 12,000
flights have already been cancelled,
impacting major transfer hubs such as
Dubai and Doha. Tens of thousands of
passengers remain stranded, causing many
carriers to run special evacuation
flights. That's your brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program, we'll set you up
for the day ahead. Plus, the Flex Sport
CEO Ryan Pettison joins us as a conflict
in the Middle East is restraining global
supply chains. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
prices are going to go up and ultimately
if it persists GDP is going to go down.
So this creates a huge headache for the
Federal Reserve because the Federal
Reserve now needs to assess the dual
mandate. Now that we have inflation
already at three and now we're adding on
top of that more upward lift on
inflation over the coming quarters
potentially. That is certainly a risk
that the federal certain needs to take
very seriously.
>> That was Torson's lock of Apollo
weighing in on the repricing we're
seeing in energy and the repricing we're
currently witnessing in the race market
as well. Now, typically, as Mike McKe
indicated, Steven Stanley as well, these
are the kind of shocks that are
typically faded and central bankers,
policy makers would look through. But
look at the headlines that are across
the Bloomberg in the last 24 hours. The
RBA down in Australia, the central bank
down under talking about every meeting
being a live meeting. You might say that
they've got their own unique issues that
have led them to that position. The ECB
ECB rate pricing now shifting towards
pricing a prospect the prospect the
probability of a rate hike maybe later
this year and we're priced out all the
easing over at the Bank of England.
That's the story for fixed income.
Here's the story for the equity market.
And I want to spend some time on this.
I've talked about it a few times so far
this morning. the difference between how
the equity guys are talking about the
risk here and what to do with it and how
the commodity guys are talking about the
risk here and what to do with it. Stocks
are down by 1.8%. The NASDAQ's down by
two. I'm not going to pick on any single
one person. It's not about them. This is
just the mood of the moment. This is
Jonathan Krisky of BTIG. Typically sharp
moves on geopolitics are not durable.
This is Osen Quan of Wells Fargo. The
playbook from the past two Gulf Wars was
to sell the news. That's the equity
bias. and we saw some of that play out
yesterday. Here's the commodity bias.
Switch the board and get to commodities
and let's talk about these moves
together. We've had a move through 85
briefly on Brent. We're up 7% so far
this morning. Let's call it 83 as things
stand. This is Carlile's Jeff Curry and
it's not just coming from him. It's
coming from others as well on the
commodity market. We're unlikely going
back to just in time energy. The
security premium is not a spike to be
faded. It may reflect a structural
reperic driven by hoarding when you
cannot trust that supply will be there
tomorrow. You secure it today.
Are we going to see some scarring in the
commodity market? Are we going to be
conditioned to price in a bigger premium
that we all have to adjust to? That's
the conversation in commodities and it
sounds very very different to what's
happening in equity land at the moment.
Should you fade this risk is still the
central question. Is it the playbook of
yesterday year or is this different?
Have things changed on the geopolitical
stage? That's the price action as things
stand. As we catch you down to the
opening bow, here's the trading diary
for the week ahead. As Mike McKe
mentioned earlier, the Minneapolis Fed
President Neil Cashgari catching up with
Mike at Bloomberg Invest at the
conference at 11:45 this morning. At 2
p.m., the president meeting with the
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson and the
energy secretary Chris Wright. Look out
for that. That's important. On
Wednesday, the Fed's Beigebook plus
earnings from Broadcom. Thursday,
another round of jobless claims plus
results from Costco. On Friday, it's the
big one. At least we thought it was.
It's the payroll report going into the
weekend. Of course, the main focus this
morning remains on the rising tensions
in the Middle East. Shipments of oil and
other goods passing through the straight
of come to a virtual standstill. The
Flexport CEO Ryan Pettison writing,
"What began as a regional security
crisis has now become a direct
disruption to global supply chains."
Ryan joins us now for more. Ryan,
welcome to the program. Thanks for
making time for us. Just how much
capacity have we just taken out?
>> Well, on the container shipping side of
things, you see there's 67 ships that
are inside the the straight of our moves
right now. A lot of those are smaller
ships. So, it looks like 0.6% of all the
container shipping capacity in the world
is taken out. Um, that is the equivalent
of the idle fleet today. And idolling is
one of the main ways that capacity can
be controlled to kind of keep prices in
place is if there's too much capacity,
you idle ships. So, it's it's a it's a
bigger deal than it sounds. And what's
going to really play out here is that
the major container shipping lines, and
I I've spoken to three CEOs of of the
Big 10 ocean carriers in the last 48
hours, that most of them have either
paused bookings to the region or really
diverted. They've all stopped shipping
inside the straight of four moves, but
many of them have said, "Hey, we're not
going to take any bookings." And so what
that means is these containers are going
to sit at ports around the world,
especially in East Asia, China, and
Southeast Asia, and not move. And so
you're going to start to get real
congestion at those ports. And we've
seen this movie before where that
congestion can lead to spikes in prices
and all kinds of problems.
>> So Ryan, let's talk about that. Some
people reflected on the energy shock of
22, the conditions coming out of the
pandemic. Are there parallels here for
you?
I mean this the you know the history
always seems to rhyme and and it is
about that that congestion and how it
flows through the supply chain and
builds up in unexpected places and now
it all depends on how long this lasts.
If it if it lasts for a long time you're
going to see major reroutings. In fact,
in fact Flexport's one of the largest
providers of ocean freight in the world.
And we built this pro uh this new
product called Atlas. It's
atlas.flexport.com where you can monitor
all the ships in real time and see where
they're sailing. And so it's actually
going to be a a big challenge for us to
see can we keep this thing up to date as
the ships get diverted as services are
less um less reliable. Um we have seen
that movie before. So yeah I would
expect to see it the services start to
degrade and be more difficult to
operate.
>> Ron you've got great visibility on these
things as dominoes start to fall. Are
you thinking about secondary bottlenecks
that might emerge as well and where
might they emerge?
Yes, I mentioned a few of those in in
unexpected places like congestion, but
you're going to see pricing be a global
phenomenon here. Ocean freight prices,
we already we're right in the middle as
contracting season is just starting to
kick off and all the ocean carriers have
told us this week, not all, but most of
the ocean carriers, and I think it'll be
all pretty soon, have told us that all
previous discussions on ocean freight
contracts for this year out the window.
>> Uh that there's too much uncertainty and
they expect prices to go way up from
where they are today. We're already
hearing rumors of $5,000 a container
from China to the US East Coast, which
that's almost that's more than double
where it's been for the last few months.
So, yeah, we're already seeing big
spikes and that will lead to all kinds
of secondary effects.
>> Ryan, some of that, as you know, might
just be a reflection of extended transit
times as well. Could you give us an idea
as some of this traffic reroutes, what
the extension to transit times might be
for, say, traffic between Europe and
Asia?
Yeah. Well, in in the ocean market, it's
really just what which of these strings
these services call in? Jebali is the
ninth largest port in the world. Abu
Dhabi has a large port. There's several
other important ports within the inside
the straight of Hormuse. So, the the
first thing is okay, which services call
there? Those are going to be heavily
disrupted and because they're going to
have to stop and unload all of those
containers. One of the ocean CEOs I
talked to said they were going to unload
in Oman, but of course, the port of Oman
got hit with a missile yesterday, too. A
ship near Oman. So it's really difficult
to say exactly how each carrier is going
to reroute things, but that that will
for sure lead to services service
issues. Uh let's not forget the air
freight market where the Middle East is
a major hub for air freight. We estimate
around 18% of all the global cargo
capacity for air freight has been taken
offline just temporarily. We haven't
seen planes get shot down but
temporarily and a lot you know you have
Emirates and Qatar uh um Etihad all of
these are major cargo airlines that
operate in that region and Asia to
Europe flights tend to go over either
stop in the Middle East or fly directly
over Iran. So just big disruptions to
the air freight market as well and and
there it's a relatively capacity
constrained market in general. You can
see huge spikes in price. Yeah. from a
small disruption in capacity.
>> Hey Ryan, I know you're busy, but I'd
love to catch up again in the next week
or so. Just get an update on how things
are developing. That was the flexport
CEO Ryan Pettison. The conversation is
going to continue here at Bloomberg
tomorrow. We'll catch up with Sebastian
Page of Tro, Chris Harvey of CIBC,
Mirror Pandit of JP Morgan, and a view
from the Federal Reserve, Governor
Steven right here on Bloomberg from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Have a wonderful day. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.